What is your query? The Wolf and the Lamb 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  72
 a Lamb astray from the fold, resolved not to
lay violent hands on him, but to find some plea to justify to the
Lamb the Wolf's right to eat him. 

The Bat and the Weasels 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  347
 ground and was caught by
another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The
Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  

The Ass and the Grasshopper 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  64
AN ASS having heard some Grasshoppers chirping, was highly
enchanted; and, desiring to possess the same charms of melody,
demanded what sort of food they lived on 

The Lion and the Mouse 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  589
 able to help you,
expecting to receive from me any repayment of your favor; I now
you know that it is possible for even a Mouse to con benefits 

The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  275
 housekeeping expenses would be lessened.  The Fuller
replied, "The arrangement is impossible as far as I am concerned,
for whatever I should whiten, you would immediately blacken again
with 

The Father and His Sons 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  339
  When they had done so, he
placed the faggot into the hands of each of them in succession,
and ordered them to break it in pieces.  They 

The Boy Hunting Locusts 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  12
A BOY was hunting for locusts.  He had caught a goodly number,
when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking him for 

The Cock and the Jewel 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  12
A COCK, scratching for food for himself and his hens, found a
precious stone and exclaimed:  "If your owner had 

The Kingdom of the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  124
 He
was neither wrathful, cruel, nor tyrannical, but just and gentle
as a king could be.  During his reign he made a royal
proclamation for a general assembly of 

The Wolf and the Crane 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  196
 the Crane had extracted the bone and demanded the promised
payment, the Wolf, grinning and grinding his teeth, exclaimed:
"Why, you have surely already had a sufficient recompense, 

The Fisherman Piping 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  366
 flute, and
casting his net into the sea, made an excellent haul of fish. 
When he saw them leaping about in the net upon the rock he said:
"O 

Hercules and the Wagoner 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  40
A CARTER was driving a wagon along a country lane, when the
wheels sank down deep into a rut.  The rustic driver, stupefied
and aghast, stood 

The Ants and the Grasshopper 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  32
THE ANTS were spending a fine winter's day drying grain collected
in the summertime.  A Grasshopper, perishing with famine, passed
by and earnestly 

The Traveler and His Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  197
 gaping? Everything is ready but you, so come with me
instantly."  The Dog, wagging his tail, replied:  "O, master! I am
quite ready; it is you 

The Dog and the Shadow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  33
A DOG, crossing a bridge over a stream with a piece of flesh in
his mouth, saw his own shadow in the water and took it 

The Mole and His Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  14
A MOLE, a creature blind from birth, once said to his Mother:  "I
am sure than I can see, Mother!"  

The Herdsman and the Lost Bull 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  11
A HERDSMAN tending his flock in a forest lost a Bull-calf from
the fold.  After a long and fruitless search, 

The Hare and the Tortoise 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  404
 the two started
together.  The Tortoise never for a moment stopped, but went on
with a slow but steady pace straight to the end of the course. 
The 

The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  36
THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most
beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble from
the 

The Farmer and the Stork 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  400
 am no Crane, I am a
Stork, a bird of excellent character; and see how I love and
slave for my father and mother.  Look too, at 

The Farmer and the Snake 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  35
ONE WINTER a Farmer found a Snake stiff and frozen with cold.  He
had compassion on it, and taking it up, placed it in 

The Fawn and His Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  417
 and fly away as
fast as I can."  
No arguments will give courage to the coward.  


The Bear and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  37
A BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy, saying that of all
animals he was the most tender in his regard for man, for 

The Swallow and the Crow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  35
THE SWALLOW and the Crow had a contention about their plumage. 
The Crow put an end to the dispute by saying, "Your feathers are
all 

The Mountain in Labor 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  24
A MOUNTAIN was once greatly agitated.  Loud groans and noises
were heard, and crowds of people came from all parts 

The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  28
THE ASS and the Fox, having entered into partnership together for
their mutual protection, went out into the forest to hunt. 

The Tortoise and the Eagle  

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  159
 her to fly. 
An Eagle, hovering near, heard her lamentation and demanded what
reward she would give him if he would take her aloft and 

The Flies and the Honey-Pot 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  122
 had been
overturned in a housekeeper's room, and placing their feet in it,
ate greedily.  Their feet, however, became so smeared with the
honey that they could not 

The Man and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  227
 were disputing, they passed a
statue carved in stone, which represented "a Lion strangled by a
Man."  The traveler pointed to it and said:  "See there! How 

The Farmer and the Cranes 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  535
 off to Liliput:  for this
man is no longer content to scare us, but begins to show us in
earnest what he can do."  
If words suffice not, 

The Dog in the Manger 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  60
 in a manger, and by his growling and snapping prevented
the oxen from eating the hay which had been placed for them. 
"What a selfish Dog!"  

The Fox and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  295
 in a lavish
praise of the water, saying it was excellent beyond measure, and
encouraging him to descend.  The Goat, mindful only of his
thirst, thoughtlessly 

The Bear and the Two Travelers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  111
 on
their path.  One of them climbed up quickly into a tree and
concealed himself in the branches.  The other, seeing that he
must be attacked, fell 

The Oxen and the Axle-Trees 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  43
A HEAVY WAGON was being dragged along a country lane by a team of
Oxen.  The Axle-trees groaned and creaked terribly; whereupon the
Oxen, turning round, thus 

The Thirsty Pigeon 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  51
A PIGEON, oppressed by excessive thirst, saw a goblet of water
painted on a signboard.  Not supposing it to be only a picture,
she flew towards it 

The Raven and the Swan 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  405
 he would, he could not change
their color, while through want of food he perished.  
Change of habit cannot alter Nature.  


The Goat and the Goatherd 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  131
 and sounded his horn in vain; the straggler paid no
attention to the summons.  At last the Goatherd threw a stone,
and breaking its horn, begged the Goat 

The Miser 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  187
 at daily.  One of his workmen observed his frequent
visits to the spot and decided to watch his movements.  He soon
discovered the secret of the 

The Sick Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  422
 beasts had thus
disappeared, the Fox discovered the trick and presenting himself
to the Lion, stood on the outside of the cave, at a respectful
distance, and asked him 

The Horse and Groom 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  13
A GROOM used to spend whole days in currycombing and rubbing down
his Horse, but at the same time stole his 

The Ass and the Lapdog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  474
 the forest or burdens
from the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and
contrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till 

The Lioness 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  250
 the presence of the Lioness and demanded of her the
settlement of the dispute. "And you," they said, "how many sons
have you at a birth?'  The 

The Boasting Traveler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  161
 many wonderful and heroic
feats he had performed in the different places he had visited. 
Among other things, he said that when he was at Rhodes he 

The Cat and the Cock 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  11
A CAT caught a Cock, and pondered how he might find a reasonable
excuse for eating him.  He accused him of 

The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  158
 laid hold of him, he grunted
and squeaked and resisted violently.  The Sheep and the Goat
complained of his distressing cries, saying, "He often handles
us, and we 

The Boy and the Filberts 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  303
 to
withdraw his hand, he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his
disappointment.  A bystander said to him, "Be satisfied with half
the quantity, and you 

The Lion in Love 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  149
 and yet afraid to refuse his request,
hit upon this expedient to rid himself of his importunities.  He
expressed his willingness to accept the Lion as the suitor 

The Laborer and the Snake 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  109
 of a cottage,
inflicted a mortal bite on the Cottager's infant son.  Grieving
over his loss, the Father resolved to kill the Snake.  The next
day, when 

The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  285
 shepherd in the
fold; the gate was closed, and the entrance made thoroughly
secure.  But the shepherd, returning to the fold during the night
to obtain meat 

The Ass and the Mule 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  277
 load to be more
than he could bear.  He entreated his companion to relieve him of
a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; 

The Frogs Asking for a King 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  533
 some time they began to think
themselves ill-treated in the appointment of so inert a Ruler,
and sent a second deputation to Jupiter to pray that he would set
over 

The Boys and the Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  57
 near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the
water and began to pelt them with stones.  They killed several of
them, when one of the 

The Sick Stag 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  29
A SICK STAG lay down in a quiet corner of its pasture-ground. 
His companions came in great numbers to inquire after his health,
and 

The Salt Merchant and His Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  142
 into which his Ass, making a false step,
fell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably
lighter, as the water melted the sack.  The Peddler 

The Oxen and the Butchers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  204
 carry out their purpose, and sharpened their horns
for the contest.  But one of them who was exceedingly old (for
many a field had he plowed) thus spoke: 

The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  374
 not the Mouse I fear," said the Lion; "I resent his
familiarity and ill-breeding."  
Little liberties are great offenses.  


The Vain Jackdaw 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  134
 made proclamation that on a certain day they should
all present themselves before him, when he would himself choose
the most beautiful among them to be king.  

The Goatherd and the Wild Goats 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  54
A GOATHERD, driving his flock from their pasture at eventide,
found some Wild Goats mingled among them, and shut them up
together with his own for 

The Mischievous Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  57
 run up quietly to the heels of everyone he met, and
to bite them without notice.  His master suspended a bell about
his neck so that the 

The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  537
 which was a very great
inconvenience.  One of them interrupting him said, "If you had
not yourself lost your tail, my friend, you would not thus
counsel 

The Boy and the Nettles 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  123
 "Although it hurts me very much, I only touched it
gently."  "That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.  "The
next time you touch a 

The Man and His Two Sweethearts 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  233
 be courted
by a man younger than herself, made a point, whenever her admirer
visited her, to pull out some portion of his black hairs.  The
younger, 

The Astronomer 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  203
 he fell accidentally into a deep
well.  While he lamented and bewailed his sores and bruises, and
cried loudly for help, a neighbor ran to the 

The Wolves and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  12
"WHY SHOULD there always be this fear and slaughter between us?"
said the Wolves to the Sheep.  "Those evil-disposed 

The Old Woman and the Physician 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  296
 her infirmity
remained, she should give him nothing.  This agreement being
made, the Physician, time after time, applied his salve to her
eyes, and on every 

The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  167
 The vanquished
Cock skulked away and hid himself in a quiet corner, while the
conqueror, flying up to a high wall, flapped his wings and crowed
exultingly with 

The Charger and the Miller 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  48
A CHARGER, feeling the infirmities of age, was sent to work in a
mill instead of going out to battle.  But when he was compelled
to grind 

The Fox and the Monkey 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  516
 on his accusing the Fox of purposely leading him into
the snare, she replied, "O Monkey, and are you, with such a mind
as yours, going to 

The Horse and His Rider 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  338
 loads of wood, subjecting him to much slavish
drudgery and ill-treatment.  War was again proclaimed, however,
and when the trumpet summoned him to his standard, the 

The Belly and the Members 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  406
 and the hands, feet,
mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.  


The Vine and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  18
A VINE was luxuriant in the time of vintage with leaves and
grapes.  A Goat, passing by, nibbled its young tendrils 

Jupiter and the Monkey 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  189
 the handsomest.  The Monkey came with the rest and
presented, with all a mother's tenderness, a flat-nosed,
hairless, ill-featured young Monkey as a candidate for the
promised reward. 

The Widow and Her Little Maidens 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  37
A WIDOW who was fond of cleaning had two little maidens to wait
on her.  She was in the habit of waking them early in the
morning, 

The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  22
A SHEPHERD-BOY, who watched a flock of sheep near a village,
brought out the villagers three or four times by crying 

The Cat and the Birds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  136
 a physician, and, taking his cane and a bag
of instruments becoming his profession, went to call on them.  He
knocked at the door and inquired 

The Kid and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  180
 Wolf, looking up, said, "Sirrah! I hear thee:  yet it is not
thou who mockest me, but the roof on which thou art standing."  
Time and place 

The Ox and the Frog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  16
AN OX drinking at a pool trod on a brood of young frogs and
crushed one of them to death.  The Mother coming 

The Shepherd and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  23
 A SHEPHERD once found the whelp of a Wolf and brought it up, and
after a while taught it to steal lambs from the 

The Father and His Two Daughters 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  105
 the
other to a tile-maker.  After a time he went to the daughter who
had married the gardener, and inquired how she was and how all
things went 

The Farmer and His Sons 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  94
 to be sure that his
sons would give the same attention to his farm as he himself had
given it.  He called them to his bedside and 

The Crab and Its Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  12
A CRAB said to her son, "Why do you walk so one-sided, my child?
It is far more becoming to go straight 

The Heifer and the Ox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  60
 an Ox hard at work harnessed to a plow, and
tormented him with reflections on his unhappy fate in being
compelled to labor.  Shortly afterwards, at 

The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  304
 young unfledged
nestlings.  The Swallow, finding her nest empty, lamented greatly
and exclaimed:  "Woe to me a stranger! that in this place where
all others' rights are 

The Thief and His Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  563
 whereupon the young man said, "I wish to say something to
my Mother in her ear."  She came close to him, and he quickly
seized her ear with 

The Old Man and Death 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  29
AN OLD MAN was employed in cutting wood in the forest, and, in
carrying the faggots to the city for sale one day, 

The Fir-Tree and the Bramble 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  20
A FIR-TREE said boastingly to the Bramble, "You are useful for
nothing at all; while I am everywhere used for roofs 

The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  168
 most part
in the water.  The Frog, one day intent on mischief, bound the
foot of the Mouse tightly to his own.  Thus joined together, the
Frog 

The Man Bitten by a Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  36
A MAN who had been bitten by a Dog went about in quest of someone
who might heal him.  A friend, meeting him and learning what 

The Two Pots 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  25
A RIVER carried down in its stream two Pots, one made of
earthenware and the other of brass.  The Earthen Pot 

The Wolf and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  156
 to a Sheep who was
passing, and asked him to fetch some water from a stream flowing
close beside him.  "For," he said, "if you will 

The Aethiop 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  30
THE PURCHASER of a black servant was persuaded that the color of
his skin arose from dirt contracted through the neglect of his
former 

The Fisherman and His Nets 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  227
 to draw them
to the shore; but he could not prevent the smaller fish from
falling back through the meshes of the net into the sea.  

The Huntsman and the Fisherman 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  236
 fish, and their owner
experienced an equal longing for the contents of the game-bag. 
They quickly agreed to exchange the produce of their day's sport. 
Each 

The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  139
 and which still retained the fragrant smell of its
former contents.  She greedily placed it several times to her
nose, and drawing it backwards and forwards said, 

The Fox and the Crow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  642
 Crow, your voice is right enough, but your wit is
wanting."  


The Two Dogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  649
 not to be blamed for the faults of their parents.  


The Stag in the Ox-Stall 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  1056
 gone, your
life is still in peril."  At that moment the master himself
entered, and having had to complain that his oxen had not been
properly 

The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  105
 upon
the Hawk to defend them.  He at once consented.  When they had
admitted him into the cote, they found that he made more havoc
and slew 

The Widow and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  341
 weight can my blood add to the
wool? If you want my flesh, there is the butcher, who will kill
me in an instant; but if you want my 

The Wild Ass and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  22
A WILD ASS and a Lion entered into an alliance so that they might
capture the beasts of the forest with greater ease.  

The Eagle and the Arrow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  47
AN EAGLE sat on a lofty rock, watching the movements of a Hare
whom he sought to make his prey.  An archer, who saw the Eagle
from a 

The Sick Kite 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  14
A KITE, sick unto death, said to his mother:  "O Mother! do not
mourn, but at once invoke the gods that 

The Lion and the Dolphin 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  342
 all the inhabitants of the ocean.  The
Dolphin gladly consented to this request.  Not long afterwards
the Lion had a combat with a wild bull, and 

The Lion and the Boar 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  117
 a Lion and a Boar came at the same moment to a
small well to drink.  They fiercely disputed which of them should
drink first, and were soon 

The One-Eyed Doe 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  497
 
Yielding up her last breath, she gasped forth this lament:  "O
wretched creature that I am! to take such precaution against the
land, and after all to find 

The Shepherd and the Sea 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  206
 his flock, invested it in a cargo of
dates, and set sail.  But a very great tempest came on, and the
ship being in danger of sinking, he threw 

The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  558
 and
tore him to pieces.  
False confidence often leads into danger.  


The Mice and the Weasels 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  586
 be better marshaled in battle array and
formed into troops, regiments, and battalions.  When all this was
done, and the army disciplined, and the herald Mouse had 

The Mice in Council 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  28
THE MICE summoned a council to decide how they might best devise
means of warning themselves of the approach of their great 

The Wolf and the Housedog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  181
 him to drag that heavy log about wherever he went. 
"The master," he replied.  Then said the Wolf:  "May no friend of
mine ever be 

The Rivers and the Sea 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  89
 the Sea, saying, "Why
is it that when we flow into your tides so potable and sweet, you
work in us such a change, and make us salty 

The Playful Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  334
 all laughed heartily, as if it afforded you
very great amusement."  


The Three Tradesmen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  300
 A Carpenter, with
equal enthusiasm, proposed timber as a preferable method of
defense.  Upon which a Currier stood up and said, "Sirs, I differ
from you altogether:  

The Master and His Dogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  45
A CERTAIN MAN, detained by a storm in his country house, first of
all killed his sheep, and then his goats, for the maintenance of
his household. 

The Wolf and the Shepherds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  46
A WOLF, passing by, saw some Shepherds in a hut eating a haunch
of mutton for their dinner.  Approaching them, he said, "What a
clamor you would 

The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  337
 destroyed in our battle with each other than
admit any interference from you in our affairs."  


The Ass Carrying the Image 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  20
AN ASS once carried through the streets of a city a famous wooden
Image, to be placed in one of its Temples.  

The Two Travelers and the Axe 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  24
TWO MEN were journeying together.  One of them picked up an axe
that lay upon the path, and said, "I have found 

The Old Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  500
 of the brave, but to be compelled to endure such
treatment from thee, a disgrace to Nature, is indeed to die a
double death."  


The Old Hound 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  102
 strength had never
yielded to any beast of the forest, encountered in his old age a
boar in the chase.  He seized him boldly by the ear, but 

The Bee and Jupiter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  77
 Hymettus, the queen of the hive, ascended to
Olympus to present Jupiter some honey fresh from her combs. 
Jupiter, delighted with the offering of honey, promised to 

The Milk-Woman and Her Pail 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  615
 my head
and refuse them every one."  At this moment she tossed her head in
unison with her thoughts, when down fell the milk pail to the
ground, 

The Seaside Travelers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  206
 ship.  They waited in the
hope of seeing it enter the harbor, but as the object on which
they looked was driven nearer to shore by the wind, 

The Brazier and His Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  186
 Dog slept; but when, on the other hand, he went to
dinner and began to eat, the Dog woke up and wagged his tail, as
if he would ask 

The Ass and His Shadow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  328
 and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, a
violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the
right to the Shadow.  The 

The Ass and His Masters 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  138
 made a petition to Jupiter to be released from
his present service and provided with another master.  Jupiter,
after warning him that he would repent his 

The Oak and the Reeds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  177
 you, who are so light and weak, are not entirely
crushed by these strong winds."  They replied, "You fight and
contend with the wind, and consequently 

The Fisherman and the Little Fish 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  157
 of his day's labor.  The Fish,
panting convulsively, thus entreated for his life:  "O Sir, what
good can I be to you, and how little am 

The Hunter and the Woodman 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  297
  The Hunter,
turning very pale and chattering with his teeth from fear,
replied, "No, thank you.  I did not ask that; it is his track
only I 

The Wild Boar and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  182
 his
teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman
or hound.  He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never do
to have to sharpen my 

The Lion in a Farmyard 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  330
 released the Lion.  On his departure the Farmer
grievously lamented the destruction of his sheep and oxen, but
his wife, who had been a spectator to all 

Mercury and the Sculptor 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  325
 the sum at which they were valued was named, he
pointed to a figure of himself, saying to the Sculptor, "You will
certainly want much more for this, as 

The Swan and the Goose 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  188
 the time came for killing the Goose, the cook went to
get him at night, when it was dark, and he was not able to
distinguish one bird from 

The Swollen Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  225
 not able to
get out, and began to groan and lament his fate.  Another Fox
passing by heard his cries, and coming up, inquired the cause of
his 

The Fox and the Woodcutter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  853
  The Fox replied, "Indeed, I
should have thanked you fervently if your deeds had been as good
as your words, and if your hands had not been traitors 

The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  230
 which
he had tamed for a decoy.  The bird entreated earnestly for his
life:  "What would you do without me when next you spread your
nets? 

The Monkey and the Fishermen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  74
 upon a lofty tree saw some Fishermen casting
their nets into a river, and narrowly watched their proceedings. 
The Fishermen after a while gave up fishing, and 

The Flea and the Wrestler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
A FLEA settled upon the bare foot of a Wrestler and bit him,
causing the man to call loudly upon Hercules 

The Two Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  105
 up under
the summer's heat, they left it and set out together for another
home.  As they went along they chanced to pass a deep well, amply
supplied 

The Cat and the Mice 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  79
 with Mice.  A Cat, discovering this,
made her way into it and began to catch and eat them one by one. 
Fearing for their lives, the Mice kept 

The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  45
 and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment, and fought
fiercely for its possession.  When they had fearfully lacerated
each other and were 

The Doe and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  24
A DOE hard pressed by hunters sought refuge in a cave belonging
to a Lion.  The Lion concealed himself on seeing 

The Farmer and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  103
 robbing his poultry
yard, caught him at last, and being determined to take an ample
revenge, tied some rope well soaked in oil to his tail, and 

The Seagull and the Kite 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  266
 food from the sea."  
Every man should be content to mind his own business.  


The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  258
 criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocent
persons to perish.  As he was indulging in these reflections, he
found himself surrounded by a whole 

The Mouse and the Bull 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  239
 before he
could rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep
outside the hole.  The Mouse peeped out, crept furtively up his
flank, and again biting him, 

The Lion and the Hare 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  279
 unable after a long chase
to catch the Hart, and returned to feed upon the Hare.  On
finding that the Hare also had run off, he said, 

The Peasant and the Eagle 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  161
 did not prove ungrateful to
his deliverer, for seeing the Peasant sitting under a wall which
was not safe, he flew toward him and with his talons snatched 

The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  23
A VERY POOR MAN, a Carpenter by trade, had a wooden image of
Mercury, before which he made offerings day by day, and 

The Bull and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  72
 a Lion, hid in a cave which some shepherds
had recently occupied.  As soon as he entered, a He-Goat left in
the cave sharply attacked him with his horns. 

The Dancing Monkeys 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  316
 often
repeated with great applause, till on one occasion a courtier,
bent on mischief, took from his pocket a handful of nuts and
threw them upon the stage.  The 

The Monkeys and Their Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  402
 the neglect to which it was
exposed.  
The best intentions will not always ensure success.  


The Oaks and Jupiter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  13
THE OAKS presented a complaint to Jupiter, saying, "We bear for
no purpose the burden of life, as of all 

The Hare and the Hound 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  9
A HOUND started a Hare from his lair, but after a long run, gave
up the chase.  A goat-herd seeing him 

The Traveler and Fortune 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  125
 of a deep well.  Just as he was about
to fall into the water, Dame Fortune, it is said, appeared to him
and waking him from his 

The Bald Knight 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  32
A BALD KNIGHT, who wore a wig, went out to hunt.  A sudden puff
of wind blew off his hat and wig, at which a loud 

The Shepherd and the Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  203
 the sheep to be safe if you
admit a wolf into the fold?'  


The Lamp 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  253
 and said:  "Boast no more, but henceforth be content to
give thy light in silence.  Know that not even the stars need to
be relit" 


The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  51
 LION, the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist
each other in the chase.  Having secured a large booty, the Lion
on their return from 

The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  107
 with his
horns.  The Lioness came up, and bitterly lamented the death of
her whelp.  A wild-boar Hunter, seeing her distress, stood at a
distance and said 

The Oak and the Woodcutters 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  29
THE WOODCUTTER cut down a Mountain Oak and split it in pieces,
making wedges of its own branches for dividing the trunk.  

The Hen and the Golden Eggs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  103
 egg every
day.  They supposed that the Hen must contain a great lump of
gold in its inside, and in order to get the gold they killed it. 

The Ass and the Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  218
 on account of his load, groaned
heavily.  Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation,
and said, "What would you do if you had to 

The Crow and the Raven 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  174
 noted
by his flight the good or evil course of future events.  Seeing
some travelers approaching, the Crow flew up into a tree, and
perching herself 

The Trees and the Axe 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  321
 the noblest giants of the forest.  An old oak,
lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions, said
to a neighboring cedar, "The first step has 

The Crab and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  338
 and habits I am only adapted for
the sea?'  
Contentment with our lot is an element of happiness.  


The Woman and Her Hen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  24
A WOMAN possessed a Hen that gave her an egg every day.  She
often pondered how she might obtain two eggs daily instead 

The Ass and the Old Shepherd 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  457
 me whom I serve?'  
In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name
of their master.  


The Kites and the Swans 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  304
 
The desire for imaginary benefits often involves the loss of
present blessings.  


The Wolves and the Sheepdogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  101
 who are
like us in so many things, not be entirely of one mind with us,
and live with us as brothers should? We differ from you in 

The Hares and the Foxes 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  200
 known who you were, and with whom you were fighting."
Count the cost before you commit yourselves.  


The Bowman and Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  24
A VERY SKILLFUL BOWMAN went to the mountains in search of game,
but all the beasts of the forest fled at his 

The Camel 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  130
 ran away.  After a time, perceiving the meekness and
gentleness of the beast's temper, he summoned courage enough to
approach him.  Soon afterwards, observing that 

The Wasp and the Snake 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  146
 wounded him to death.  The Snake,
being in great torment and not knowing how to rid himself of his
enemy, saw a wagon heavily laden with wood, and 

The Dog and the Hare 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  16
A HOUND having started a Hare on the hillside pursued her for
some distance, at one time biting her with his teeth 

The Bull and the Calf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  12
A BULL was striving with all his might to squeeze himself through
a narrow passage which led to his stall.  

The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  348
 I be able to
find you, when the day of payment comes?'  
Two blacks do not make one white.  


The Peacock and the Crane 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  21
A PEACOCK spreading its gorgeous tail mocked a Crane that passed
by, ridiculing the ashen hue of its plumage and saying, 

The Fox and the Hedgehog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  333
 inquired if he should drive away the flies
that were tormenting him.  "By no means," replied the Fox; "pray
do not molest them."  "How is this?'  

The Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  79
 top of a lofty oak; a Cat, having
found a convenient hole, moved into the middle of the trunk; and
a Wild Sow, with her young, took shelter in 

The Thief and the Innkeeper 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  697
 these attacks of howling were inflicted on me as a
judgment for my crimes, or for any other cause; but this I do
know, that when I yawn for 

The Mule 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  157
 manner, and said to himself:
"My father surely was a high-mettled racer, and I am his own
child in speed and spirit."  On the next day, being driven 

The Hart and the Vine 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  147
 The huntsmen, in their haste, overshot the
place of his concealment.  Supposing all danger to have passed,
the Hart began to nibble the tendrils of the Vine. 

The Serpent and the Eagle 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  84
 were struggling with each other in deadly
conflict.  The Serpent had the advantage, and was about to
strangle the bird.  A countryman saw them, and running 

The Crow and the Pitcher 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  524
 saved his life.  
Necessity is the mother of invention.  


The Two Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  248
 pond warned his friend to change his residence and entreated
him to come and live with him, saying that he would enjoy greater
safety from danger and more 

The Wolf and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  30
AT ONE TIME a very large and strong Wolf was born among the
wolves, who exceeded all his fellow-wolves in strength, size, and
swiftness, so that 

The Walnut-Tree 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  53
A WALNUT TREE standing by the roadside bore an abundant crop of
fruit.  For the sake of the nuts, the passers-by broke its
branches with stones and sticks.  

The Gnat and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  544
 to crush him, the Lion
tore himself with his claws, until he punished himself severely. 
The Gnat thus prevailed over the Lion, and, buzzing about in 

The Monkey and the Dolphin 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  135
  As he sailed off the coast of Greece, a
violent tempest arose in which the ship was wrecked and he, his
Monkey, and all the crew were obliged 

The Jackdaw and the Doves 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  134
 himself white and joined them in order to share
their plentiful maintenance.  The Doves, as long as he was
silent, supposed him to be one of themselves 

The Horse and the Stag 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  36
AT ONE TIME the Horse had the plain entirely to himself.  Then a
Stag intruded into his domain and shared his pasture.  The 

The Kid and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
A KID, returning without protection from the pasture, was pursued
by a Wolf.  Seeing he could not 

The Prophet 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  12
A WIZARD, sitting in the marketplace, was telling the fortunes of
the passers-by when a person ran up in great 

The Fox and the Monkey 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  123
 As
they journeyed, they passed through a cemetery full of monuments. 
"All these monuments which you see," said the Monkey, "are
erected in honor of my ancestors, 

The Thief and the Housedog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  36
A THIEF came in the night to break into a house.  He brought with
him several slices of meat in order to pacify the Housedog, so
that 

The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  678
 man is in his youth
impetuous, headstrong, and obstinate in maintaining his own
opinion.  The Ox took under his patronage the next term of life,
and therefore man 

The Apes and the Two Travelers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  982
 his court, gratified with the
lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer. 
On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a
reward 

The Wolf and the Shepherd 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  205
 against an enemy, and kept a strict
watch over his movements.  But when the Wolf, day after day, kept
in the company of the sheep and did not make 

The Hares and the Lions 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  20
THE HARES harangued the assembly, and argued that all should be
equal.  The Lions made this reply:  "Your words, 

The Lark and Her Young Ones 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  23
A LARK had made her nest in the early spring on the young green
wheat.  The brood had almost grown to their full 

The Fox and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  242
 was still much alarmed, but not to the same extent as at
first.  On seeing him the third time, he so increased in boldness
that he went up to 

The Weasel and the Mice 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  223
 supposing him to be
food, leaped upon him, and was instantly caught and squeezed to
death.  Another perished in a similar manner, and then a third,
and 

The Boy Bathing 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
A BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned.  He
called out to a passing traveler for help, 

The Ass and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  357
 ate him it
should injure his throat.  The Wolf consented and lifted up the
foot, and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the
thorn, when 

The Seller of Images 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  487
 "I am
in need of immediate help, and he is wont to give his good gifts
very slowly."  


The Fox and the Grapes 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  239
 reach them. 
At last she turned away, hiding her disappointment and saying:
"The Grapes are sour, and not ripe as I thought."  


The Man and His Wife 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  317
 inquired how she had got on and how the servants had
treated her, she replied, "The herdsmen and shepherds cast on me
looks of aversion."  He 

The Peacock and Juno 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  722
 unfavorable auguries.  These are all contented 
with the endowments allotted to them."  


The Hawk and the Nightingale 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  72
 sitting aloft upon an oak and singing according to
his wont, was seen by a Hawk who, being in need of food, swooped
down and seized him.  The Nightingale, about 

The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  496
 desired to
make the acquaintance of the owner of so magnificent a voice. 
The Cock, suspecting his civilities, said:  "Sir, I wish you would
do me the 

The Wolf and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  397
 that you invite me, but for
yourself, who are in want of food."  


The Lion and the Bull 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  666
 quietly took his
departure.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without
a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any 



First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  70
 and an Ass.  The Goat, envying the Ass on
account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefully
you are treated:  at one time grinding 

The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  823
 such good
cheer, expressed his satisfaction in warm terms and lamented his
own hard fate.  Just as they were beginning to eat, someone
opened the door, and they both 

The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  43
 WOLF accused a Fox of theft, but the Fox entirely denied the
charge.  An Ape undertook to adjudge the matter between them. 
When each had 

The Fly and the Draught-Mule 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
A FLY sat on the axle-tree of a chariot, and addressing the
Draught-Mule said, "How slow you are! Why do you 

The Fishermen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  330
 the men were beyond measure cast downso much at the
disappointment which had befallen them, but because they had
formed such very different expectations.  One of their 

The Lion and the Three Bulls 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  40
THREE BULLS for a long time pastured together.  A Lion lay in
ambush in the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to
attack them 

The Fowler and the Viper 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  47
A FOWLER, taking his bird-lime and his twigs, went out to catch
birds.  Seeing a thrush sitting upon a tree, he wished to take
it, and fitting 

The Horse and the Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  238
 The Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to
the justice of the gods.  Not long afterwards the Horse, having
become broken-winded, was sent by 

The Fox and the Mask 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A FOX entered the house of an actor and, rummaging through all
his properties, came upon a Mask, an admirable 

The Geese and the Cranes 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  14
THE GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow, when a
birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets. 

The Blind Man and the Whelp 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  51
A BLIND MAN was accustomed to distinguishing different animals by
touching them with his hands.  The whelp of a Wolf was brought
him, with 

The Dogs and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  19
SOME DOGS, finding the skin of a lion, began to tear it in pieces
with their teeth.  A Fox, seeing them, said, "If 

The Cobbler Turned Doctor 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  282
 obtained a great name for himself by long-winded
puffs and advertisements.  When the Cobbler happened to fall sick
himself of a serious illness, the Governor of the town 

The Wolf and the Horse 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  101
 thus
addressed him:  "I would advise you to go into that field.  It is
full of fine oats, which I have left untouched for you, as you
are a 

The Brother and the Sister 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  212
 day as children, they happened by chance to
look together into a mirror that was placed on their mother's
chair.  The boy congratulated himself on his good looks; 

The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  503
 promises, do all these things.  It is surely better
for me to give the water to them than to you."  


The Crow and Mercury 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  12
A CROW caught in a snare prayed to Apollo to release him, making
a vow to offer some frankincense at his shrine. 

The North Wind and the Sun 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  540
 sooner felt his genial rays
than he took off one garment after another, and at last, fairly
overcome with heat, undressed and bathed in a stream that 

The Two Men Who Were Enemies 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  200
 the other in the prow of the
ship.  A violent storm arose, and with the vessel in great danger
of sinking, the one in the stern inquired of 

The Gamecocks and the Partridge 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  199
 reared with his Gamecocks.  When the Partridge was
put into the poultry-yard, they struck at it and followed it
about, so that the Partridge became grievously troubled 

The Quack Frog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  19
A FROG once upon a time came forth from his home in the marsh and
proclaimed to all the beasts that he was a 

The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  306
 not coming to visit him.  At that very moment the
Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf.  The Lion
roaring out in a 

The Dog's House 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  75
 curled up in as small a space as
possible on account of the cold, determined to make himself a
house.  However when the summer returned again, he 

The Wolf and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  425
 and
killed him.  He exclaimed with a too late repentance, "Wretched
me! this overestimation of myself is the cause of my
destruction."  


The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  245
 strongest.  When
peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both
combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery,
he was driven forth from 

The Spendthrift and the Swallow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  262
 twittering gaily.  He supposed that summer had
come, and went and sold his cloak.  Not many days later, winter
set in again with renewed frost and cold.  

The Fox and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  42
 FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage, and standing near him,
bitterly reviled him.  The Lion said to the Fox, "It is not thou
who 

The Owl and the Birds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  994
 she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments
their past folly.  


The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  282
 have no arms, and carry nothing
but this one brass trumpet."  "That is the very reason for which
you should be put to death," they said; "for, while 

The Ass in the Lion's Skin 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  17
AN ASS, having put on the Lion's skin, roamed about in the forest
and amused himself by frightening all the foolish animals he 

The Sparrow and the Hare 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  54
 pounced upon by an eagle sobbed very much and uttered
cries like a child.  A Sparrow upbraided her and said, "Where now
is thy remarkable swiftness of 

The Flea and the Ox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  256
 creature,
mercilessly feed on their flesh and drink their blood without
stint?'  The Ox replied:  "I do not wish to be ungrateful, for I am
loved and well cared for by 

The Goods and the Ills 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  296
 asked for a righteous
vengeance on their persecutors.  They entreated Jupiter that they
might no longer be associated with the Ills, as they had nothing
in 

The Dove and the Crow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  10
A DOVE shut up in a cage was boasting of the large number of
young ones which she had hatched.  A Crow 

Mercury and the Workmen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  180
 his livelihood, he sat down on the bank and lamented his hard
fate.  Mercury appeared and demanded the cause of his tears. 
After he told 

The Eagle and the Jackdaw 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  336
 his wings and settled upon a
large ram, with the intention of carrying him off, but his claws
became entangled in the ram's fleece and he was not 

The Fox and the Crane 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  70
 invited a Crane to supper and provided nothing for his
entertainment but some soup made of pulse, which was poured out
into a broad flat stone dish.  The 

Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  20
ACCORDING to an ancient legend, the first man was made by
Jupiter, the first bull by Neptune, and the first house 

The Eagle and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  30
AN EAGLE and a Fox formed an intimate friendship and decided to
live near each other.  The Eagle built her nest in 

The Man and the Satyr 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  113
 of
alliance being formed between them.  One very cold wintry day, as
they talked, the Man put his fingers to his mouth and blew on
them.  When the 

The Ass and His Purchaser 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  13
A MAN wished to purchase an Ass, and agreed with its owner that
he should try out the animal before he bought 

The Two Bags 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  31
EVERY MAN, according to an ancient legend, is born into the world
with two bags suspended from his neck   all bag 

The Stag at the Pool 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  494
 at a safe distance from the Lion.  But entering a
wood he became entangled by his horns, and the Lion quickly came
up to him and 

The Jackdaw and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  389
 to cheat you, but which will never reward you with
enjoyment."  


The Lark Burying Her Father 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  30
THE LARK (according to an ancient legend) was created before the
earth itself, and when her father died, as there was no 

The Gnat and the Bull 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  9
A GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull, and sat there a long time. 
Just as he was about to 

The Bitch and Her Whelps 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  206
 her puppies in the same spot.  The
shepherd again consented.  But at last the Bitch, protected by
the bodyguard of her Whelps, who had now grown up 

The Dogs and the Hides 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  21
SOME DOGS famished with hunger saw a number of cowhides steeping
in a river.  Not being able to reach them, 

The Shepherd and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  369
 "O you
most ungrateful creatures! You provide wool to make garments for
all other men, but you destroy the clothes of him who feeds you."


The Grasshopper and the Owl 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  245
 and chirped louder and louder the more the Owl entreated. 
When she saw that she could get no redress and that her words
were despised, the Owl 

The Monkey and the Camel 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  50
THE BEASTS of the forest gave a splendid entertainment at which
the Monkey stood up and danced.  Having vastly delighted the
assembly, he sat down amidst 

The Peasant and the Apple-Tree 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  250
 a
bold stroke at its roots.  The grasshoppers and sparrows
entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but
to spare it, and they would sing 

The Two Soldiers and the Robber 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  13
TWO SOLDIERS traveling together were set upon by a Robber.  The
one fled away; the other stood his ground 

The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  30
THE GODS, according to an ancient legend, made choice of certain
trees to be under their special protection.  Jupiter chose the
oak, 

The Mother and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  457
 we will kill him."  The Wolf, hearing these
words, went home, gasping with cold and hunger.  When he reached
his den, Mistress Wolf inquired of him why 

The Ass and the Horse 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  14
AN ASS besought a Horse to spare him a small portion of his feed. 
"Yes," said the Horse; "if any remains out 

Truth and the Traveler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  42
A WAYFARING MAN, traveling in the desert, met a woman standing
alone and terribly dejected.  He inquired of her, "Who art thou?"
"My name 

The Manslayer 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  209
 fearfully afraid, climbed up a tree. 
He found a serpent in the upper branches of the tree, and again
being greatly alarmed, he threw himself into the river, 

The Lion and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A FOX entered into partnership with a Lion on the pretense of
becoming his servant.  Each undertook his proper 

The Lion and the Eagle 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  31
AN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an
alliance with him to their mutual advantage.  The Lion replied,
"I have 

The Hen and the Swallow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  83
 of a viper and carefully keeping them
warm, nourished them into life.  A Swallow, observing what she
had done, said, "You silly creature! why have you hatched 

The Buffoon and the Countryman 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  163
 he would handsomely reward
any person who invented a new amusement for the occasion. 
Various public performers contended for the prize.  Among them
came a Buffoon 

The Crow and the Serpent 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  39
A CROW in great want of food saw a Serpent asleep in a sunny
nook, and flying down, greedily seized him.  The Serpent, turning
about, bit the 

The Hunter and the Horseman 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  519
 along with you! for I will now
make you a present of the hare."  


The King's Son and the Painted Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  240
 son a
pleasant palace and adorned its walls for his amusement with all
kinds of life-sized animals, among which was the picture of a
lion.  When 

The Cat and Venus 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  50
 fell in love with a handsome young man, and entreated Venus
to change her into the form of a woman.  Venus consented to her
request and 

The She-Goats and Their Beards 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  113
 request to Jupiter, the
He-Goats were sorely displeased and made complaint that the
females equaled them in dignity.  "Allow them," said Jupiter, "to
enjoy an empty honor 

The Camel and the Arab 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  24
AN ARAB CAMEL-DRIVER, after completing the loading of his Camel,
asked him which he would like best, to go up 

The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  112
 him.  They had not gone far when they met with a troop of
women collected round a well, talking and laughing.  "Look
there," cried one of 

The Crow and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  22
A TROUBLESOME CROW seated herself on the back of a Sheep.  The
Sheep, much against his will, carried her backward and forward
for 

The Fox and the Bramble 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  13
A FOX was mounting a hedge when he lost his footing and caught
hold of a Bramble to save himself.  Having 

The Wolf and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  16
A WOLF, having stolen a lamb from a fold, was carrying him off to
his lair.  A Lion met him in 

The Dog and the Oyster 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  242
 pain
in his stomach, he said, "I deserve all this torment, for my
folly in thinking that everything round must be an egg."  
They who act 

The Ant and the Dove 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
AN ANT went to the bank of a river to quench its thirst, and
being carried away by the rush of the stream, 

The Partridge and the Fowler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  161
 saying, "Pray,
master, permit me to live and I will entice many Partridges to
you in recompense for your mercy to me."  The Fowler replied, 

The Flea and the Man 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  27
A MAN, very much annoyed with a Flea, caught him at last, and
said, "Who are you who dare to feed on my limbs, 

The Thieves and the Cock 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  403
 you," they replied; "for when
you wake your neighbors, you entirely put an end to our
business."  
The safeguards of virtue are hateful to those with evil
intentions. 

The Dog and the Cook 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  376
 the hour
appointed, and seeing the preparations for so grand an
entertainment, said in the joy of his heart, "How glad I am that
I came! I do not often get 

The Travelers and the Plane-Tree 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  333
 not of the least service to man."  The
Plane-Tree, interrupting him, said, "You ungrateful fellows! Do
you, while receiving benefits from me and resting under 

The Hares and the Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  74
 oppressed by their own exceeding timidity and weary of
the perpetual alarm to which they were exposed, with one accord
determined to put an end to themselves and 

The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  607
 one instance."  On
hearing this the Lion groaned and lamented very much and,
reproaching himself with his cowardice, wished that he might die. 
As these 

The Lamb and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  211
 you."  On which the Lamb replied,
"It would be better for me to be sacrificed in the Temple than to
be eaten by you."  


The Rich Man and the Tanner 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  264
  But as he still continued to stay, as
time went on, the rich man became accustomed to the smell, and
feeling no manner of inconvenience, made no further 

The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  197
 Sea, loaded it with reproaches.  He argued that
it enticed men with the calmness of its looks, but when it had
induced them to plow its waters, 

The Mules and the Robbers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  23
TWO MULES well-laden with packs were trudging along.  One carried
panniers filled with money, the other sacks weighted with grain. 

The Viper and the File 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
A LION, entering the workshop of a smith, sought from the tools
the means of satisfying his hunger.  He 

The Lion and the Shepherd 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  484
 was condemned
"to be cast to the Lions" as the punishment for his imputed
crime.  But when the Lion was released from his cage, he
recognized the Shepherd as 

The Camel and Jupiter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  125
 he himself could obtain the same honors.  He went
to Jupiter, and besought him to give him horns.  Jupiter, vexed
at his request because he was 

The Panther and the Shepherds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  36
A PANTHER, by some mischance, fell into a pit.  The Shepherds
discovered him, and some threw sticks at him and pelted him with
stones, 

The Ass and the Charger 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  215
  But when war broke out,
a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse, and riding him to the
charge, rushed into the very midst of the enemy.  

The Eagle and His Captor 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  141
 him into his poultry-yard with the other birds, at
which treatment the Eagle was weighed down with grief.  Later,
another neighbor purchased him and allowed his feathers 

The Bald Man and the Fly 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  363
 make peace with
myself, because I know there was no intention to hurt.  But you,
an ill-favored and contemptible insect who delights in sucking
human blood, I wish 

The Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  25
THE OLIVE-TREE ridiculed the Fig-Tree because, while she was
green all the year round, the Fig-Tree changed its leaves with
the 

The Eagle and the Kite 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  798
 the fields.  "Is this," said the
Eagle, "the faithful fulfillment of your promise to me?'  The Kite
replied, "That I might attain your royal hand, there is 

The Ass and His Driver 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  50
AN ASS, being driven along a high road, suddenly started off and
bolted to the brink of a deep precipice.  While he was in the act
of throwing 

The Thrush and the Fowler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  233
 his
reeds, caught her.  The Thrush, being at the point of death,
exclaimed, "O foolish creature that I am! For the sake of a
little pleasant 

The Rose and the Amaranth 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  15
AN AMARANTH planted in a garden near a Rose-Tree, thus addressed
it:  "What a lovely flower is the Rose, a 

The Frogs' Complaint Against the Sun 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  48
ONCE UPON A TIME, when the Sun announced his intention to take a
wife, the Frogs lifted up their voices in clamor to the sky. 
Jupiter, disturbed 

Ordering documents based on Rank: 
1 The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass 

2 The Crow and the Raven 

3 The Gnat and the Lion 

4 The Travelers and the Plane-Tree 

5 The Lion in a Farmyard 

6 The Eagle and His Captor 

7 The King's Son and the Painted Lion 

8 The Boasting Traveler 

9 The Lion and the Dolphin 

10 The Wolf and the Lion 

11 The Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow 

12 The Lion and the Bull 

13 The Stag at the Pool 

14 The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep 

15 The Mice and the Weasels 

16 The Cobbler Turned Doctor 

17 The Farmer and the Stork 

18 The Ant and the Dove 

19 The Belly and the Members 

20 The Brother and the Sister 

21 The Tortoise and the Eagle  

22 The Flea and the Ox 

23 The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea 

24 The Heifer and the Ox 

25 The Goatherd and the Wild Goats 

26 The Lion and the Eagle 

27 The Farmer and the Cranes 

28 The Lion and the Mouse 

29 The Thief and the Innkeeper 

30 The Two Men Who Were Enemies 

31 The Trees and the Axe 

32 The Spendthrift and the Swallow 

33 The Blind Man and the Whelp 

34 The Widow and the Sheep 

35 The Grasshopper and the Owl 

36 The Crab and the Fox 

37 The Crow and the Serpent 

38 The Cat and Venus 

39 The Old Woman and the Physician 

40 The Sick Kite 

41 The Milk-Woman and Her Pail 

42 The Seller of Images 

43 The Owl and the Birds 

44 The Buffoon and the Countryman 

45 The Wolf and the Shepherd 

46 The One-Eyed Doe 

47 The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass 

48 The Eagle and the Kite 

49 The Wolf and the Lamb 

50 The Mischievous Dog 

51 The Seagull and the Kite 

52 The Father and His Sons 

53 The Thirsty Pigeon 

54 The Fly and the Draught-Mule 

55 The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant 

56 The Frogs Asking for a King 

57 The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat 

58 The Ass and His Shadow 

59 The Flea and the Wrestler 

60 The Bear and the Fox 

61 The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice 

62 The Man and the Satyr 

63 The Kingdom of the Lion 

64 The Fawn and His Mother 

65 Jupiter and the Monkey 

66 The Apes and the Two Travelers 

67 The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods 

68 The Peasant and the Eagle 

69 The Fishermen 

70 The Farmer and the Fox 

71 The Peasant and the Apple-Tree 

72 The Lion and the Shepherd 

73 The Thief and His Mother 

74 The Stag in the Ox-Stall 

75 The Old Hound 

76 The Fox and the Hedgehog 

77 The Peacock and Juno 

78 The Hawk and the Nightingale 

79 The Dog and the Oyster 

80 The Dog and the Cook 

81 The Sick Lion 

82 The Ass and the Mule 

83 The Sick Stag 

84 The Seaside Travelers 

85 The Hunter and the Woodman 

86 The Mother and the Wolf 

87 The Fisherman Piping 

88 The Dancing Monkeys 

89 The Camel and Jupiter 

90 The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox 

91 The Ass and the Old Shepherd 

92 The Hart and the Vine 

93 The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog 

94 The Weasel and the Mice 

95 The Two Frogs 

96 The Ass and the Lapdog 

97 The Cat and the Mice 

98 The North Wind and the Sun 

99 The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox 

100 Mercury and the Workmen 

101 The Panther and the Shepherds 

102 The Thief and the Housedog 

103 The Jackdaw and the Fox 

104 The Miser 

105 The Lion in Love 

106 The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle 

107 The Huntsman and the Fisherman 

108 The Fowler and the Viper 

109 The Goods and the Ills 

110 The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion 

111 The Three Tradesmen 

112 The Bowman and Lion 

113 The Oxen and the Butchers 

114 The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail 

115 The Charger and the Miller 

116 The Two Dogs 

117 The Ass Carrying the Image 

118 The Ass and His Masters 

119 The Swan and the Goose 

120 The Camel 

121 The Horse and the Ass 

122 The Fox and the Mask 

123 The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner 

124 The Eagle and the Jackdaw 

125 The Hunter and the Horseman 

126 The Partridge and the Fowler 

127 The Thieves and the Cock 

128 The Oak and the Woodcutters 

129 The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion 

130 The Fox and the Goat 

131 The Bee and Jupiter 

132 The Brazier and His Dog 

133 The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock 

134 The Lark and Her Young Ones 

135 The Boy and the Nettles 

136 The Lark Burying Her Father 

137 The Bitch and Her Whelps 

138 The Fisherman and the Little Fish 

139 The Wolf and the Crane 

140 The Bear and the Two Travelers 

141 The Astronomer 

142 The Fox and the Crow 

143 Mercury and the Sculptor 

144 The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse 

145 The Monkey and the Camel 

146 The Flies and the Honey-Pot 

147 The Goat and the Goatherd 

148 The Father and His Two Daughters 

149 The Wolves and the Sheepdogs 

150 The Kid and the Wolf 

151 The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing 

152 The Fox and the Lion 

153 The Master and His Dogs 

154 

155 The Gamecocks and the Partridge 

156 The Lamp 

157 The Shepherd and the Sheep 

158 The Dog and the Hare 

159 The Wolf and the Sheep 

160 The Doe and the Lion 

161 The She-Goats and Their Beards 

162 The Bat and the Weasels 

163 The Man and the Lion 

164 The Salt Merchant and His Ass 

165 The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox 

166 The Vain Jackdaw 

167 The Fisherman and His Nets 

168 The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury 

169 The Mouse and the Bull 

170 The Ass and the Frogs 

171 The Serpent and the Eagle 

172 The Crow and the Pitcher 

173 The Monkey and the Dolphin 

174 The Horse and the Stag 

175 The Fox and the Lion 

176 Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus 

177 The Ass and His Purchaser 

178 The Two Soldiers and the Robber 

179 The Hares and the Frogs 

180 The Rich Man and the Tanner 

181 The Mole and His Mother 

182 The Jackdaw and the Doves 

183 The Eagle and the Fox 

184 The Dog and the Shadow 

185 The Farmer and the Snake 

186 The Kid and the Wolf 

187 The Oaks and Jupiter 

188 The Hare and the Hound 

189 The Prophet 

190 The Camel and the Arab 

191 The Bald Man and the Fly 

192 The Swollen Fox 

193 The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape 

194 The Ass in the Lion's Skin 

195 The Dog's House 

196 The Widow and Her Little Maidens 

197 The Fir-Tree and the Bramble 

198 The Lioness 

199 The Boy and the Filberts 

200 The Laborer and the Snake 

201 The Fox and the Monkey 

202 The Hen and the Golden Eggs 

203 The Wasp and the Snake 

204 The Fox and the Grapes 

205 The Fox and the Crane 

206 The Ass and the Charger 

207 The Thrush and the Fowler 

208 The Two Frogs 

209 The Frogs' Complaint Against the Sun 

210 The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller 

211 The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat 

212 The Rivers and the Sea 

213 The Hen and the Swallow 

214 The Dog in the Manger 

215 The Cat and the Cock 

216 The Farmer and His Sons 

217 The Ants and the Grasshopper 

218 The Horse and His Rider 

219 The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf 

220 The Wild Ass and the Lion 

221 The Traveler and Fortune 

222 The Aethiop 

223 The Cock and the Jewel 

224 The Cat and the Birds 

225 The Ox and the Frog 

226 The Man Bitten by a Dog 

227 The Fox and the Woodcutter 

228 The Flea and the Man 

229 The Mules and the Robbers 

230 The Traveler and His Dog 

231 The Fox and the Bramble 

232 The Dogs and the Fox 

233 The Playful Ass 

234 The Monkeys and Their Mother 

235 The Mountain in Labor 

236 The Two Pots 

237 The Dogs and the Hides 

238 The Raven and the Swan 

239 The Lion and the Three Bulls 

240 The Swallow and the Crow 

241 The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk 

242 The Shepherd and the Sea 

243 The Ass and the Wolf 

244 The Crow and the Sheep 

245 The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter 

246 Hercules and the Wagoner 

247 The Oxen and the Axle-Trees 

248 The Old Lion 

249 The Wild Boar and the Fox 

250 The Wolf and the Goat 

251 The Old Man and Death 

252 The Two Bags 

253 The Crow and Mercury 

254 The Bald Knight 

255 The Lion and the Fox 

256 The Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree 

257 The Bull and the Goat 

258 The Manslayer 

259 The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar 

260 The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter 

261 The Dove and the Crow 

262 The Gnat and the Bull 

263 The Viper and the File 

264 The Man and His Two Sweethearts 

265 The Herdsman and the Lost Bull 

266 The Lion and the Boar 

267 Truth and the Traveler 

268 The Wolf and the Lion 

269 The Vine and the Goat 

270 The Hares and the Foxes 

271 The Hare and the Tortoise 

272 The Shepherd and the Dog 

273 The Wolf and the Housedog 

274 The Oak and the Reeds 

275 The Wolf and the Fox 

276 The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox 

277 The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer 

278 The Man and His Wife 

279 The Rose and the Amaranth 

280 The Boys and the Frogs 

281 The Mule 

282 The Boy Bathing 

283 The Ass and the Horse 

284 The Two Travelers and the Axe 

285 The Monkey and the Fishermen 

286 The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble 

287 The Ass and His Driver 

288 The Wolves and the Sheep 

289 The Lion and the Hare 

290 The Sparrow and the Hare 

291 The Horse and Groom 

292 The Mice in Council 

293 The Fox and the Monkey 

294 The Quack Frog 

295 The Bull and the Calf 

296 The Eagle and the Arrow 

297 The Peacock and the Crane 

298 The Kites and the Swans 

299 The Wolf and the Horse 

300 The Crab and Its Mother 

301 The Woman and Her Hen 

302 The Geese and the Cranes 

303 The Boy Hunting Locusts 

304 The Hares and the Lions 

305 The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat 

306 The Walnut-Tree 

307 The Ass and the Grasshopper 

308 The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons 

309 The Shepherd and the Wolf 

310 The Lamb and the Wolf 

311 The Wolf and the Shepherds 

