What is your query? The Wolf and the Lamb 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  618
 drink
to me."  Upon which the Wolf seized him and ate him up, saying,
"Well! I won't remain supperless, even though you refute every
one of my imputations."  

The Bat and the Weasels 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  388
 he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The
Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The Bat
assured him that he was not a mouse, but 

The Ass and the Grasshopper 

Exact Match Found at:  200
 they lived on to give them such
beautiful voices.  They replied, "The dew."  The Ass resolved that
he would live only upon dew, and in a short 

The Ass and the Grasshopper 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  200
 they lived on to give them such
beautiful voices.  They replied, "The dew."  The Ass resolved that
he would live only upon dew, and in a short 

The Lion and the Mouse 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  438
 to the
ground.  The Mouse, recognizing his roar, came gnawed the rope
with his teeth, and set him free, exclaim
"You ridiculed the idea of my ever being able to 

The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  144
 Fuller, and entreated him to come and live
with him, saying that they should be far better neighbors and
that their housekeeping expenses would be lessened.  The Fuller
replied, 

The Father and His Sons 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  132
  When he failed to heal their disputes by his
exhortations, he determined to give them a practical illustration
of the evils of disunion; and for this purpose he 

The Boy Hunting Locusts 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  138
 Scorpion, and mistaking him for a locust, reached
out his hand to take him.  The Scorpion, showing his sting, said:
If you had but touched me, my friend, you 

The Cock and the Jewel 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  116
 a
precious stone and exclaimed:  "If your owner had found thee, and
not I, he would have taken thee up, and have set thee in thy
first estate; but I 

The Kingdom of the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  79
 had a Lion as their king.  He
was neither wrathful, cruel, nor tyrannical, but just and gentle
as a king could be.  During his reign he 

The Wolf and the Crane 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  39
A WOLF who had a bone stuck in his throat hired a Crane, for a
large sum, to put her head into his mouth and draw out the bone. 
When 

The Fisherman Piping 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  141
 on a projecting rock, he played several tunes
in the hope that the fish, attracted by his melody, would of
their own accord dance into his net, which he had 

Hercules and the Wagoner 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  150
 rut.  The rustic driver, stupefied
and aghast, stood looking at the wagon, and did nothing but utter
loud cries to Hercules to come and help him.  Hercules, 

The Ants and the Grasshopper 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  33
THE ANTS were spending a fine winter's day drying grain collected
in the summertime.  A Grasshopper, perishing with famine, passed
by and earnestly 

The Traveler and His Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  59
 set out on a journey saw his Dog stand at the
door stretching himself.  He asked him sharply:  "Why do you stand
there gaping? Everything is ready 

The Dog and the Shadow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  334
 him.  He thus lost both:  that
which he grasped at in the water, because it was a shadow; and
his own, because the stream swept it away.  


The Mole and His Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  310
  His Mother exclaimed:  "My son, I am afraid that you
are not only blind, but that you have lost your sense of smell.  


The Herdsman and the Lost Bull 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  122
 After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that,
if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he
would offer a lamb in sacrifice 

The Hare and the Tortoise 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  256
 to be simply impossible, assented to the proposal; and
they agreed that the Fox should choose the course and fix the
goal.  On the day appointed for the race 

The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  99
 which was the most
beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble from
the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a boastful
tone: 

The Farmer and the Stork 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  141
 pick up his seed.  With them he
trapped a Stork that had fractured his leg in the net and was
earnestly beseeching the Farmer to spare his life.  "Pray 

The Farmer and the Snake 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  321
 "Oh," cried the Farmer with his last breath, "I am
rightly served for pitying a scoundrel."  
The greatest kindness will not bind the ungrateful.  


The Fawn and His Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  245
 smiled, and said:  "I know full well, my son, that all you say
is true.  I have the advantages you mention, but when I hear even
the bark of 

The Bear and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  52
A BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy, saying that of all
animals he was the most tender in his regard for man, for he had
such respect for him 

The Swallow and the Crow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  118
 put an end to the dispute by saying, "Your feathers are
all very well in the spring, but mine protect me against the
winter."  
Fair weather friends are 

The Mountain in Labor 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  123
 crowds of people came from all parts to see what
was the matter.  While they were assembled in anxious expectation
of some terrible calamity, out came a Mouse. 

The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  439
 the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he
should fall into it.  The Lion, seeing that the Ass was secured,
immediately clutched the Fox, and 

The Tortoise and the Eagle  

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  84
 in the sun, complained to the
sea-birds of her hard fate, that no one would teach her to fly. 
An Eagle, hovering near, heard her lamentation and demanded what
reward she 

The Flies and the Honey-Pot 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  200
 greedily.  Their feet, however, became so smeared with the
honey that they could not use their wings, nor release
themselves, and were suffocated.  Just as they were expiring,
they 

The Man and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  193
 and prowess.  As they were disputing, they passed a
statue carved in stone, which represented "a Lion strangled by a
Man."  The traveler pointed to it 

The Farmer and the Cranes 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  204
 away by the terror he inspired; but when
the birds found that the sling was only swung in the air, they
ceased to take any notice of it and would not 

The Dog in the Manger 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  130
 eating the hay which had been placed for them. 
"What a selfish Dog!"  said one of them to his companions; "he
cannot eat the hay himself, and yet refuses to 

The Fox and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  76
 well and could find no means of
escape.  A Goat, overcome with thirst, came to the same well, and
seeing the Fox, inquired if the water was good. 

The Bear and the Two Travelers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  179
 tree and
concealed himself in the branches.  The other, seeing that he
must be attacked, fell flat on the ground, and when the Bear came
up and felt him with 

The Oxen and the Axle-Trees 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  44
A HEAVY WAGON was being dragged along a country lane by a team of
Oxen.  The Axle-trees groaned and creaked terribly; whereupon the
Oxen, turning round, thus addressed 

The Thirsty Pigeon 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  58
 PIGEON, oppressed by excessive thirst, saw a goblet of water
painted on a signboard.  Not supposing it to be only a picture,
she flew towards it with a 

The Raven and the Swan 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  91
 desired to secure for himself the same
beautiful plumage.  Supposing that the Swan's splendid white
color arose from his washing in the water in which he swam, 

The Goat and the Goatherd 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  218
 last the Goatherd threw a stone,
and breaking its horn, begged the Goat not to tell his master. 
The Goat replied, "Why, you silly fellow, the horn will speak
though I 

The Miser 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  16
A MISER sold all that he had and bought a lump of gold, which he
buried in a hole in the ground by the side 

The Sick Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  194
 den, and lying down there, pretended to be sick, taking
care that his sickness should be publicly known.  The beasts
expressed their sorrow, and came one by one to 

The Horse and Groom 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  81
 whole days in currycombing and rubbing down
his Horse, but at the same time stole his oats and sold them for
his own profit.  "Alas!"  said the Horse, "if 

The Ass and the Lapdog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  747
 fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump
about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the
table and smashed all the 

The Lioness 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  348
 many sons
have you at a birth?'  The Lioness laughed at them, and said:
"Why! I have only one; but that one is altogether a thoroughbred
Lion."  
The value 

The Boasting Traveler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  215
 different places he had visited. 
Among other things, he said that when he was at Rhodes he had
leaped to such a distance that no man of his day could 

The Cat and the Cock 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  240
 sleep. 
The Cock defended himself by saying that he did this for the
benefit of men, that they might rise in time for their labors. 
The Cat replied, "Although 

The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  48
 PIG was shut up in a fold-yard with a Goat and a Sheep. 
On one occasion when the shepherd laid hold of him, he grunted
and squeaked and resisted 

The Boy and the Filberts 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  361
 lamented his
disappointment.  A bystander said to him, "Be satisfied with half
the quantity, and you will readily draw out your hand."  
Do not attempt too 

The Lion in Love 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  287
 Lion as the suitor of his
daughter on one condition:  that he should allow him to extract
his teeth, and cut off his claws, as his daughter was 

The Laborer and the Snake 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  374
 of its tail.  After some time the Cottager, afraid that the
Snake would bite him also, endeavored to make peace, and placed
some bread and salt in 

The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  373
 But the shepherd, returning to the fold during the night
to obtain meat for the next day, mistakenly caught up the Wolf
instead of a sheep, and killed him 

The Ass and the Mule 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  641
 addition to his own, and at the top of all
placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule,
groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to 

The Frogs Asking for a King 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  307
 depths of the pool.  But as soon as they
realized that the huge log was motionless, they swam again to the
top of the water, dismissed their fears, climbed 

The Boys and the Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  226
 the water,
cried out:  "Pray stop, my boys:  what is sport to you, is death to
us."  


The Sick Stag 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  217
 of the food which had been
placed for his use; so that he died, not from his sickness, but
from the failure of the means of living.  
Evil companions 

The Salt Merchant and His Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  526
 load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he
had obtained what he desired.  The Peddler saw through his trick
and drove him for the third time to the coast, 

The Oxen and the Butchers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  179
 on a
certain day to carry out their purpose, and sharpened their horns
for the contest.  But one of them who was exceedingly old (for
many a field had he 

The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  9
A LION, fatigued by the heat of a summer's day, fell fast asleep
in his den.  A Mouse ran over his 

The Vain Jackdaw 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  91
 said, to create a sovereign over the
birds, and made proclamation that on a certain day they should
all present themselves before him, when he would himself choose
the most beautiful 

The Goatherd and the Wild Goats 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  195
 the night.  The next day it snowed very
hard, so that he could not take the herd to their usual feeding
places, but was obliged to keep them in the 

The Mischievous Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  9
A DOG used to run up quietly to the heels of everyone he met, and
to bite them without notice.  His master 

The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  197
 he was exposed, he schemed to convince all the other
Foxes that being tailless was much more attractive, thus making
up for his own deprivation.  He assembled a 

The Boy and the Nettles 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  134
 hurts me very much, I only touched it
gently."  "That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.  "The
next time you touch a Nettle, grasp it 

The Man and His Two Sweethearts 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  519
 came to pass that between them both he very
soon found that he had not a hair left on his head.  
Those who seek to please everybody please nobody.  


The Astronomer 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  315
 for help, a neighbor ran to the well, and learning
what had happened said:  "Hark ye, old fellow, why, in striving to
pry into what is in heaven, do 

The Wolves and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  419
  The Sheep, poor silly
creatures, were easily beguiled and dismissed the Dogs, whereupon
the Wolves destroyed the unguarded flock at their own pleasure.  


The Old Woman and the Physician 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  143
 made this bargain with him in the
presence of witnesses:  that if he should cure her blindness, he
should receive from her a sum of money; but if 

The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  76
 fiercely fighting for the mastery of the
farmyard.  One at last put the other to flight.  The vanquished
Cock skulked away and hid himself in a quiet corner, 

The Charger and the Miller 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  235
 his change
of fortune and called to mind his former state, saying, "Ah!
Miller, I had indeed to go campaigning before, but I was barbed
from counter to tail, and 

The Fox and the Monkey 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  256
 leading the Monkey to the place where it was, said that
she had found a store, but had not used it  e had kept it for him
as treasure trove 

The Horse and His Rider 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  757
 a Horse into an Ass; and how can you expect
that I can again turn in a moment from an Ass to a Horse?'  


The Belly and the Members 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  273
 and self-indulgence?'  The Members carried out
their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly.  The
whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet,
mouth, and eyes, 

The Vine and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  73
 the time of vintage with leaves and
grapes.  A Goat, passing by, nibbled its young tendrils and its
leaves.  The Vine addressed him and said:  "Why 

Jupiter and the Monkey 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  131
 a royal reward to the one whose offspring should be
deemed the handsomest.  The Monkey came with the rest and
presented, with all a mother's tenderness, a flat-nosed,
hairless, ill-featured 

The Widow and Her Little Maidens 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  291
 mistress so
early.  When they had done this, they found that they had only
prepared for themselves greater troubles, for their mistress, no
longer hearing the hour from 

The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  66
 SHEPHERD-BOY, who watched a flock of sheep near a village,
brought out the villagers three or four times by crying out,
"Wolf! Wolf!"  and when his neighbors came to 

The Cat and the Birds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  14
A CAT, hearing that the Birds in a certain aviary were ailing
dressed himself up as a physician, and, taking his cane 

The Kid and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  90
 out of harm's way, saw a
Wolf passing by and immediately began to taunt and revile him. 
The Wolf, looking up, said, "Sirrah! I hear thee:  yet 

The Ox and the Frog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  404
 puffing herself out, inquired, "if
the beast was as big as that in size."  "Cease, Mother, to puff
yourself out," said her son, "and do not be angry; 

The Shepherd and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  23
 A SHEPHERD once found the whelp of a Wolf and brought it up, and
after a while taught it to steal lambs from the 

The Father and His Two Daughters 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  286
 things are prospering with
me, and I have only one wish, that there may be a heavy fall of
rain, in order that the plants may be well watered."  Not 

The Farmer and His Sons 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  56
 being on the point of death, wished to be sure that his
sons would give the same attention to his farm as he himself had
given it.  He 

The Crab and Its Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  101
 one-sided, my child?
It is far more becoming to go straight forward."  The young Crab
replied:  "Quite true, dear Mother; and if you will show me the
straight 

The Heifer and the Ox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  337
 slain in honor of
the occasion.  The Ox saw what was being done, and said with a
smile to the Heifer:  "For this you were allowed to live 

The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  132
 a nest in the wall of a Court of Justice
and there hatched seven young birds.  A Serpent gliding past the
nest from its hole in the wall ate 

The Thief and His Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  814
 beaten me when I first stole and brought to you that
lesson-book, I should not have come to this, nor have been thus
led to a disgraceful death."  

The Old Man and Death 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  310
 appeared in answer to his summons and asked for what
reason he had called him.  The Old Man hurriedly replied, "That,
lifting up the load, you may place it 

The Fir-Tree and the Bramble 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  283
 about to hew you down, you
would have reason to wish that you had grown up a Bramble, not a
Fir-Tree."  
Better poverty without care, than riches with.  

The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  945
 prisoner, and was eaten by the Hawk.  
Harm hatch, harm catch.  


The Man Bitten by a Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  261
 from your wound, and go and give it to the
Dog that bit you."  The Man who had been bitten laughed at this
advice and said, "Why? If I should do 

The Two Pots 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  215
 come near me, for
if you touch me ever so slightly, I shall be broken in pieces,
and besides, I by no means wish to come near you." 

The Wolf and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  107
 in
his lair.  Being in want of food, he called to a Sheep who was
passing, and asked him to fetch some water from a stream flowing
close beside him. 

The Aethiop 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  44
THE PURCHASER of a black servant was persuaded that the color of
his skin arose from dirt contracted through the neglect of his
former masters.  On bringing 

The Fisherman and His Nets 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  83
 his calling, made a very successful cast
and captured a great haul of fish.  He managed by a skillful
handling of his net to retain all the large fish 

The Huntsman and the Fisherman 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  367
 day's sport. 
Each was so well pleased with his bargain that they made for some
time the same exchange day after day.  Finally a neighbor said to
them, 

The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  100
 lately been full of
prime old wine and which still retained the fragrant smell of its
former contents.  She greedily placed it several times to her
nose, and drawing 

The Fox and the Crow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  32
A CROW having stolen a bit of meat, perched in a tree and held it
in her beak.  A Fox, seeing this, longed to possess the meat
himself, 

The Two Dogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  94
 assist him in his sports,
and a Housedog, taught to watch the house.  When he returned home
after a good day's sport, he always gave the Housedog a large
share 

The Stag in the Ox-Stall 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  1503
 out of the
straw.  Then summoning his laborers, he ordered that the Stag
should be seized and killed.  


The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  164
  When they had
admitted him into the cote, they found that he made more havoc
and slew a larger number of them in one day than the Kite could
pounce 

The Widow and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  173
 expense, she sheared him
herself, but used the shears so unskillfully that with the fleece
she sheared the flesh.  The Sheep, writhing with pain, said, "Why
do you hurt me 

The Wild Ass and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  49
 WILD ASS and a Lion entered into an alliance so that they might
capture the beasts of the forest with greater ease.  The Lion
agreed to assist the 

The Eagle and the Arrow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  239
 him
mortally.  The Eagle gave one look at the arrow that had entered
his heart and saw in that single glance that its feathers had
been furnished by himself.  

The Sick Kite 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  28
A KITE, sick unto death, said to his mother:  "O Mother! do not
mourn, but at once invoke the gods that my life may be
prolonged." 

The Lion and the Dolphin 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  91
 Dolphin lift up its head out
of the waves, and suggested that they contract an alliance,
saying that of all the animals they ought to be the best 

The Lion and the Boar 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  415
 some Vultures waiting in
the distance to feast on the one that should fall first.  They at
once made up their quarrel, saying, "It is better for us to make
friends, 

The One-Eyed Doe 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  524
 last breath, she gasped forth this lament:  "O
wretched creature that I am! to take such precaution against the
land, and after all to find this seashore, to which 

The Shepherd and the Sea 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  21
A SHEPHERD, keeping watch over his sheep near the shore, saw the
Sea very calm and smooth, and longed to make a 

The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  416
 Cock summoned courage to
attack him, and galloped after him for that purpose.  He had run
no long distance, when the Lion, turning about, seized him and
tore him to 

The Mice and the Weasels 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  271
 leaders set apart from the general
army to command them, and that they were exposed to dangers from
lack of discipline.  They therefore chose as leaders Mice that
were 

The Mice in Council 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  179
 enemy
the Cat.  Among the many plans suggested, the one that found most
favor was the proposal to tie a bell to the neck of the Cat, so
that the 

The Wolf and the Housedog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  95
 a wooden collar about
his neck asked him who it was that fed him so well and yet
compelled him to drag that heavy log about wherever he went. 
"The master," 

The Rivers and the Sea 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  69
 joined together to complain to the Sea, saying, "Why
is it that when we flow into your tides so potable and sweet, you
work in us such a change, and make 

The Playful Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  151
 owner went up after him and
quickly drove him down, beating him severely with a thick wooden
cudgel.  The Ass said, "Why, I saw the Monkey do 

The Three Tradesmen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  194
  A Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as affording
the best material for an effective resistance.  A Carpenter, with
equal enthusiasm, proposed timber as a preferable method of
defense. 

The Master and His Dogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  187
 of
his household.  The storm still continuing, he was obliged to
slaughter his yoke oxen for food.  On seeing this, his Dogs took
counsel together, and said, "It is 

The Wolf and the Shepherds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  122
 mutton for their dinner.  Approaching them, he said, "What a
clamor you would raise if I were to do as you are doing!"  


The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  144
 a Sprat lifted its head out of the
waves and said that he would reconcile their differences if they
would accept him as an umpire.  One of the 

The Ass Carrying the Image 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  199
 crowd made lowly prostration before the Image.  The Ass,
thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect for
himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and 

The Two Travelers and the Axe 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  146
 said, "I have found an axe."  "Nay, my
friend," replied the other, "do not say 'I,' but 'We' have found
an axe."  They had not gone far before they 

The Old Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  282
 as if he
were an enemy.  When the Ass saw that the huge beast could be
assailed with impunity, he let drive at his forehead with his
heels.  

The Old Hound 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  246
 his hold because of the decay of his teeth, so that
the boar escaped.  His master, quickly coming up, was very much
disappointed, and fiercely abused the dog. 

The Bee and Jupiter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  280
 therefore besought him, saying,
"Give me, I pray thee, a sting, that if any mortal shall approach
to take my honey, I may kill him."  Jupiter was much displeased,
for 

The Milk-Woman and Her Pail 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  365
 for the market
when poultry will fetch the highest price, so that by the end of
the year I shall have money enough from my share to buy a new
gown.  

The Seaside Travelers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  422
 a ship.  When
however it reached the beach, they discovered that it was only a
large faggot of sticks, and one of them said to his companions,
"We have waited 

The Brazier and His Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  674
 every blessing, and that
none but those who work are entitled to eat?'  


The Ass and His Shadow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  427
 them had the
right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let the
Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had,
with the hire 

The Ass and His Masters 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  521
 be the last time that he could grant his request,
ordained that he be sold to a tanner.  The Ass found that he had
fallen into worse hands, and noting his master's 

The Oak and the Reeds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  44
A VERY LARGE OAK was uprooted by the wind and thrown across a
stream.  It fell among some Reeds, which it thus addressed:  "I
wonder how you, who 

The Fisherman and the Little Fish 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  191
 convulsively, thus entreated for his life:  "O Sir, what
good can I be to you, and how little am I worth? I am not yet
come to my full size.  

The Hunter and the Woodman 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  192
 footsteps or knew where his lair was.  "I will,"
said the man, "at once show you the Lion himself."  The Hunter,
turning very pale and chattering with his 

The Wild Boar and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  160
 he thus sharpened his
teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman
or hound.  He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never do
to 

The Lion in a Farmyard 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  155
 he could not escape, he
flew upon the sheep and killed them, and then attacked the oxen. 
The Farmer, beginning to be alarmed for his own safety, opened
the 

Mercury and the Sculptor 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  571
 replied, "Well, if you will buy these, I'll fling you
that into the bargain."  


The Swan and the Goose 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  203
 for killing the Goose, the cook went to
get him at night, when it was dark, and he was not able to
distinguish one bird from the other.  By mistake 

The Swollen Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  166
 a hearty
meal.  When he finished, he was so full that he was not able to
get out, and began to groan and lament his fate.  Another Fox
passing by heard 

The Fox and the Woodcutter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  339
 the Woodcutter if he had seen
the Fox.  He declared that he had not seen him, and yet pointed,
all the time he was speaking, to the hut where 

The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  267
 decoy.  The bird entreated earnestly for his
life:  "What would you do without me when next you spread your
nets? Who would chirp you to sleep, or call 

The Monkey and the Fishermen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  517
 breath he said to himself, "I am rightly
served; for what business had I who had never handled a net to
try and catch fish?'  


The Flea and the Wrestler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  287
 a Flea, how can I hope
for your assistance against greater antagonists?'  


The Two Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  79
 pool.  When the pool dried up under
the summer's heat, they left it and set out together for another
home.  As they went along they chanced to pass 

The Cat and the Mice 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  260
 was no longer able to get at them and perceived
that she must tempt them forth by some device.  For this purpose
she jumped upon a peg, and suspending 

The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  29
A LION and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment, and fought
fiercely for its possession.  When they had fearfully lacerated
each other and 

The Doe and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  25
A DOE hard pressed by hunters sought refuge in a cave belonging
to a Lion.  The Lion concealed himself on seeing her approach,
but 

The Farmer and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  362
 the time of the wheat
harvest; but the Farmer reaped nothing that year and returned
home grieving sorely.  


The Seagull and the Kite 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  165
 Kite saw him and
exclaimed:  "You richly deserve your fate; for a bird of the air
has no business to seek its food from the sea."  
Every man should 

The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  462
 One of them climbed up and stung him, and he
immediately trampled them all to death with his foot.  Mercury
presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with his 

The Mouse and the Bull 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  60
 bitten by a Mouse and, angered by the wound, tried to
capture him.  But the Mouse reached his hole in safety.  Though
the Bull dug into the walls 

The Lion and the Hare 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  413
 "I am rightly
served, for having let go of the food that I had in my hand for
the chance of obtaining more."  


The Peasant and the Eagle 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  406
 it up, the man returned
to the same place, to find that the wall under which he had been
sitting had fallen to pieces; and he marveled at the 

The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  543
 I paid you
honor, I reaped no benefits:  but now that I maltreat you I am
loaded with an abundance of riches."  


The Bull and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  287
 have no fear of
you, but of the Lion.  Let that monster go away and I will soon
let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and 

The Dancing Monkeys 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  52
 PRINCE had some Monkeys trained to dance.  Being naturally
great mimics of men's actions, they showed themselves most apt
pupils, and when arrayed in their rich 

The Monkeys and Their Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  188
 but hates and neglects the other.  It happened once
that the young one which was caressed and loved was smothered by
the too great affection of the Mother, 

The Oaks and Jupiter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  114
 purpose the burden of life, as of all the trees that grow we
are the most continually in peril of the axe."  Jupiter made
answer:  "You have 

The Hare and the Hound 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  135
  A goat-herd seeing him stop, mocked him, saying
"The little one is the best runner of the two."  The Hound
replied, "You do not see the difference between us:  

The Traveler and Fortune 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  388
 I shall get an ill name among mortals; for I
find that men are sure to impute their calamities to me, however
much by their own folly they have really 

The Bald Knight 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  248
 in the joke by saying, "What a marvel it is
that hairs which are not mine should fly from me, when they have
forsaken even the man on whose head 

The Shepherd and the Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  32
A SHEPHERD penning his sheep in the fold for the night was about
to shut up a wolf with them, when his Dog perceiving the wolf
said, "Master, 

The Lamp 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  292
 henceforth be content to
give thy light in silence.  Know that not even the stars need to
be relit" 


The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  524
 the favor to make a division.  The
Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and
left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion 

The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  50
 BULL finding a lion's cub asleep gored him to death with his
horns.  The Lioness came up, and bitterly lamented the death of
her whelp.  A wild-boar Hunter, 

The Oak and the Woodcutters 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  196
 do not care about the blows of the axe
aimed at my roots, but I do grieve at being torn in pieces by
these wedges made from my own branches."  
Misfortunes 

The Hen and the Golden Eggs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  80
 Hen that laid a golden egg every
day.  They supposed that the Hen must contain a great lump of
gold in its inside, and in order to get the 

The Ass and the Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  37
AN ASS, carrying a load of wood, passed through a pond.  As he
was crossing through the water he lost his footing, stumbled and
fell, and not 

The Crow and the Raven 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  383
  The travelers turned towards the sound and wondered what
it foreboded, when one of them said to his companion, "Let us
proceed on our journey, my friend, for it 

The Trees and the Axe 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  339
 of the forest.  An old oak,
lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions, said
to a neighboring cedar, "The first step has lost us all. 

The Crab and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  133
 ground.  A Fox came across him, and being very
hungry ate him up.  Just as he was on the point of being eaten,
the Crab said, "I well deserve my fate, for 

The Woman and Her Hen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  170
 instead of
one, and at last, to gain her purpose, determined to give the Hen
a double allowance of barley.  From that day the Hen became fat
and sleek, 

The Ass and the Old Shepherd 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  398
 said the Ass, "as long as I carry the
panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?'  
In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name
of 

The Kites and the Swans 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  155
 neigh of the horse, they were so
enchanted with the sound, that they tried to imitate it; and, in
trying to neigh, they forgot how to sing.  
The desire 

The Wolves and the Sheepdogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  404
 They make you also guard their sheep,
and while they eat the mutton throw only the bones to you.  If
you will be persuaded by us, you will give us 

The Hares and the Foxes 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  22
THE HARES waged war with the Eagles, and called upon the Foxes to
help them.  They replied, "We would willingly have helped 

The Bowman and Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  252
 said to the Lion:  "I send thee my messenger, that
from him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail
thee."  The wounded Lion rushed 

The Camel 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  67
 saw the Camel, he was so frightened at his vast
size that he ran away.  After a time, perceiving the meekness and
gentleness of the beast's temper, he summoned courage 

The Wasp and the Snake 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
A WASP seated himself upon the head of a Snake and, striking him
unceasingly with his stings, wounded him to death.  

The Dog and the Hare 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  77
 a Hare on the hillside pursued her for
some distance, at one time biting her with his teeth as if he
would take her life, and at another fawning upon her, 

The Bull and the Calf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  262
 pass.  "Save yourself the trouble," said the Bull; "I
knew that way long before you were born."  


The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  188
 some fraud
was intended, excused herself, saying, "The Wolf is accustomed to
seize what he wants and to run off; and you, too, can quickly
outstrip me in your rapid flight.  

The Peacock and the Crane 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  264
 have not a bit of color on your wings."
"True," replied the Crane; "but I soar to the heights of heaven
and lift up my voice to the stars, while you 

The Fox and the Hedgehog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  320
 anguish and inquired if he should drive away the flies
that were tormenting him.  "By no means," replied the Fox; "pray
do not molest them."  "How is 

The Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  23
AN EAGLE made her nest at the top of a lofty oak; a Cat, having
found a convenient hole, moved into the middle of the trunk; 

The Thief and the Innkeeper 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  760
 crimes, or for any other cause; but this I do
know, that when I yawn for the third time, I actually turn into a
wolf and attack men."  With this 

The Mule 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  158
 manner, and said to himself:
"My father surely was a high-mettled racer, and I am his own
child in speed and spirit."  On the next day, being driven a 

The Hart and the Vine 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  488
 am rightly served,
for I should not have maltreated the Vine that saved me."  


The Serpent and the Eagle 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  263
 Serpent and let the Eagle go free.  The Serpent,
irritated at the escape of his prey, injected his poison into the
drinking horn of the countryman.  The rustic, 

The Crow and the Pitcher 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  142
 delight.  When he reached it, he
discovered to his grief that it contained so little water that he
could not possibly get at it.  He tried everything 

The Two Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  516
 become accustomed.  A few days afterwards a heavy wagon
passed through the gully and crushed him to death under its
wheels.  
A willful man will have his way 

The Wolf and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  139
 who exceeded all his fellow-wolves in strength, size, and
swiftness, so that they unanimously decided to call him "Lion."
The Wolf, with a lack of sense proportioned to his 

The Walnut-Tree 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  209
 stones and sticks.  The Walnut-Tree piteously
exclaimed, "O wretched me! that those whom I cheer with my fruit
should repay me with these painful requitals!"  


The Gnat and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  232
 your teeth
an a woman in her quarrels.  I repeat that I am altogether more
powerful than you; and if you doubt it, let us fight and see 

The Monkey and the Dolphin 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  605
 the Monkey if he were an
Athenian.  The latter replied that he was, and that he was
descended from one of the most noble families in that city.  

The Jackdaw and the Doves 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  312
 But when one day he forgot himself and began to
chatter, they discovered his true character and drove him forth,
pecking him with their beaks.  Failing to 

The Horse and the Stag 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  466
 the man to mount him.  From that
hour he found that instead of obtaining revenge on the Stag, he
had enslaved himself to the service of man.  

The Kid and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  321
 dance."  The Wolf complied, and while he was piping
and the Kid was dancing, some hounds hearing the sound ran up and
began chasing the Wolf.  Turning to 

The Prophet 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  129
 passers-by when a person ran up in great haste, and
announced to him that the doors of his house had been broken open
and that all his goods were being stolen.  

The Fox and the Monkey 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  275
 ancestors, who were in their day freedmen
and citizens of great renown."  The Fox replied, "You have chosen
a most appropriate subject for your falsehoods, as I am 

The Thief and the Housedog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  129
 slices of meat in order to pacify the Housedog, so
that he would not alarm his master by barking.  As the Thief
threw him the pieces of meat, the 

The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  35
A HORSE, Ox, and Dog, driven to great straits by the cold, sought
shelter and protection from Man.  He received them kindly,
lighted a fire, 

The Apes and the Two Travelers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  511
 was the custom among men.  After these preparations he
signified that the two men should be brought before him, and
greeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of 

The Wolf and the Shepherd 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  549
 left the sheep
entirely in his charge.  The Wolf, now that he had the
opportunity, fell upon the sheep, and destroyed the greater part
of the flock.  When 

The Hares and the Lions 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  43
THE HARES harangued the assembly, and argued that all should be
equal.  The Lions made this reply:  "Your words, O Hares! are
good; but they 

The Lark and Her Young Ones 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  434
 related it to his mother, inquiring of her to what
place they should move for safety.  "There is no occasion to move
yet, my son," she replied; "the 

The Fox and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  124
 the first time in the forest, he was so frightened
that he nearly died with fear.  On meeting him for the second
time, he was still much alarmed, but not 

The Weasel and the Mice 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  478
 distance the trick of
his crafty foe and said, "Ah! you that lie there, may you prosper
just in the same proportion as you are what you pretend to be!" 

The Boy Bathing 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  7
A BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned.  He
called out to a passing traveler for help, 

The Ass and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  174
 up,
inquired the cause of his lameness.  The Ass replied that passing
through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn.  He
requested that 

The Seller of Images 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  155
 to buy it, in order to
attract purchasers, he cried out that he had the statue to sell
of a benefactor who bestowed wealth and helped to heap up riches. 

The Fox and the Grapes 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  96
 ripe black grapes hanging
from a trellised vine.  She resorted to all her tricks to get at
them, but wearied herself in vain, for she could not reach them. 

The Man and His Wife 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  107
 of his
household.  Wishing to find out if she had the same effect on the
persons in her father's house, he made some excuse to send her
home on 

The Peacock and Juno 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  34
THE PEACOCK made complaint to Juno that, while the nightingale
pleased every ear with his song, he himself no sooner opened his
mouth than 

The Hawk and the Nightingale 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  241
 his life,
earnestly begged the Hawk to let him go, saying that he was not
big enough to satisfy the hunger of a Hawk who, if he wanted
food, ought to 

The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  663
 to the hollow trunk below me, and
waking my porter, so that he may open the door and let you in."
When the Fox approached the tree, the Dog sprang out 

The Wolf and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  205
 lower down, lest she fall by some
mishap; and he added that the meadows lay where he was standing,
and that the herbage was most tender.  She replied, 

The Lion and the Bull 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  352
 have your
company."  The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull was in
the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage,
and make his 



First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  20
A MAN once kept a Goat and an Ass.  The Goat, envying the Ass on
account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefully
you 

The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  986
 squeaking, as fast as they
could, to a hole so narrow that two could only find room in it by
squeezing.  They had scarcely begun their repast again when
someone 

The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  234
  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim;
and I do believe you, Fox, to have stolen what you so stoutly
deny."  
The dishonest, if 

The Fly and the Draught-Mule 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  65
 sat on the axle-tree of a chariot, and addressing the
Draught-Mule said, "How slow you are! Why do you not go faster?
See if I do not prick your neck 

The Fishermen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  116
 to
be very heavy, they danced about for joy and supposed that they
had taken a large catch.  When they had dragged the nets to the
shore they found but 

The Lion and the Three Bulls 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  124
 hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to
attack them while they kept together.  Having at last by guileful
speeches succeeded in separating them, he attacked 

The Fowler and the Viper 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  434
 a swoon, the man said to himself, "Woe is me! that
while I purposed to hunt another, I am myself fallen unawares
into the snares of death."  


The Horse and the Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  537
 thou who are thyself
reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'  


The Fox and the Mask 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  175
  He placed his paws on it and said, "What a beautiful
head! Yet it is of no value, as it entirely lacks brains."  


The Geese and the Cranes 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  12
THE GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow, when a
birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets.  

The Blind Man and the Whelp 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  148
 The whelp of a Wolf was brought
him, with a request that he would feel it, and say what it was. 
He felt it, and being in doubt, said:  "I 

The Dogs and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  160
 said, "If this lion were
alive, you would soon find out that his claws were stronger than
your teeth."  
It is easy to kick a man that 

The Cobbler Turned Doctor 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  640
 reward.  The Cobbler, under the fear of death, confessed that
he had no knowledge of medicine, and was only made famous by the
stupid clamors of the crowd. 

The Wolf and the Horse 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  51
 out of a field of oats met a Horse and thus
addressed him:  "I would advise you to go into that field.  It is
full of fine oats, 

The Brother and the Sister 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  649
 of that which belonged only to girls.  The father
embraced them both, and bestowing his kisses and affection
impartially on each, said, "I wish you both would look 

The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  204
 repay him the favor which they asked.  The
Partridges declared that they would dig around his vines and make
them produce finer grapes.  The Wasps said that they 

The Crow and Mercury 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  11
A CROW caught in a snare prayed to Apollo to release him, making
a vow to offer some frankincense at his shrine.  

The North Wind and the Sun 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  79
 Sun disputed as to which was the most
powerful, and agreed that he should be declared the victor who
could first strip a wayfaring man of his clothes.  

The Two Men Who Were Enemies 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  380
 the ship would go down first.  On his replying
that he supposed it would be the prow, the Man said, "Death would
not be grievous to me, if I could 

The Gamecocks and the Partridge 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  321
 followed it
about, so that the Partridge became grievously troubled and
supposed that he was thus evilly treated because he was a
stranger.  Not long afterwards he saw the Cocks 

The Quack Frog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  75
 time came forth from his home in the marsh and
proclaimed to all the beasts that he was a learned physician,
skilled in the use of drugs and able to heal 

The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  172
 The Wolf therefore,
thinking that he had a capital opportunity, accused the Fox to
the Lion of not paying any respect to him who had the rule over
them all and 

The Dog's House 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  275
 himself to be of a
great size.  Now he considered that it would be neither an easy
nor a necessary work to make himself such a house as would
accommodate 

The Wolf and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  240
 nearly
an acre in length, be afraid of the Lion? Ought I not to be
acknowledged as King of all the collected beasts?'  While he was
indulging in these proud thoughts, 

The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  80
 Beasts, and each were by turns the
conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight,
always fought on the side which he felt was the 

The Spendthrift and the Swallow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  233
 season, skimming
along a pool and twittering gaily.  He supposed that summer had
come, and went and sold his cloak.  Not many days later, winter
set in again with 

The Fox and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  42
 FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage, and standing near him,
bitterly reviled him.  The Lion said to the Fox, "It is not thou
who revilest 

The Owl and the Birds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  483
 them. 
And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that
this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathers
which would fly faster than the 

The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  290
 arms, and carry nothing
but this one brass trumpet."  "That is the very reason for which
you should be put to death," they said; "for, while you do not
fight 

The Ass in the Lion's Skin 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  184
 wanderings.  At last coming upon a Fox, he tried to
frighten him also, but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his
voice than he exclaimed, "I might 

The Sparrow and the Hare 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  306
 killed him.  The Hare was comforted in her death, and
expiring said, "Ah! you who so lately, when you supposed yourself
safe, exulted over my calamity, have 

The Flea and the Ox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  356
 for I am
loved and well cared for by men, and they often pat my head and
shoulders."  "Woe's me!"  said the flea; "this very patting which
you 

The Goods and the Ills 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  584
 for their future protection.  Jupiter granted their request
and decreed that henceforth the Ills should visit the earth in
company with each other, but that the Goods should 

The Dove and the Crow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  86
 of the large number of
young ones which she had hatched.  A Crow hearing her, said:  "My
good friend, cease from this unseasonable boasting.  The larger
the number 

Mercury and the Workmen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  1364
 had lost it.  The
Workman seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was the
very same axe that he had lost.  Mercury, displeased at his
knavery, not only took 

The Eagle and the Jackdaw 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  539
 feathers as much
as he could.  The shepherd, seeing what had happened, ran up and
caught him.  He at once clipped the Jackdaw's wings, and taking
him home at 

The Fox and the Crane 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  271
 mouthful, and his vexation at not being
able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement.  The Crane, in his
turn, asked the Fox to sup with him, and set 

Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  614
 had not placed the heart of man on the outside, that everyone
might read the thoughts of the evil disposed and take precautions
against the intended mischief.  And, 

The Eagle and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  462
 and her brood.  The Fox on her return,
discovered what had happened, but was less grieved for the death
of her young than for her inability to avenge them. 

The Man and the Satyr 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  520
 it.  When the Satyr again inquired the reason,
he said that he did it to cool the meat, which was too hot.  "I
can no longer consider you as a 

The Ass and His Purchaser 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  58
 wished to purchase an Ass, and agreed with its owner that
he should try out the animal before he bought him.  He took the
Ass home and put him 

The Two Bags 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  217
 bag behind filled with his own
faults.  Hence it is that men are quick to see the faults of
others, and yet are often blind to their own failings. 

The Stag at the Pool 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  799
 gloried in these antlers
which have proved my destruction."  
What is most truly valuable is often underrated.  


The Jackdaw and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  130
 some fruit entirely out of season, and waited in the
hope that the figs would ripen.  A Fox seeing him sitting so long
and learning the reason of his doing so, 

The Lark Burying Her Father 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  249
 five days, and on the sixth day, not knowing what
else to do, she buried him in her own head.  Hence she obtained
her crest, which is popularly said 

The Gnat and the Bull 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  43
 GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull, and sat there a long time. 
Just as he was about to fly off, he made a buzzing noise, and
inquired of the 

The Bitch and Her Whelps 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  78
 whelp, earnestly begged a shepherd for a place
where she might litter.  When her request was granted, she
besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot. 

The Dogs and the Hides 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  156
 them, they agreed to drink
up the river, but it happened that they burst themselves with
drinking long before they reached the hides.  
Attempt not impossibilities. 

The Shepherd and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  284
 the cloak.  When
the Shepherd came down and saw what was done, he said, "O you
most ungrateful creatures! You provide wool to make garments for
all other men, 

The Grasshopper and the Owl 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  302
 
When she saw that she could get no redress and that her words
were despised, the Owl attacked the chatterer by a stratagem. 
"Since I cannot sleep," 

The Monkey and the Camel 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  404
 amusement.  He moved about in so
utterly ridiculous a manner that the Beasts, in a fit of
indignation, set upon him with clubs and drove him out of the
assembly. 

The Peasant and the Apple-Tree 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  288
 grasshoppers and sparrows
entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but
to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labors. 
He 

The Two Soldiers and the Robber 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  416
 who had fought with the
Robber made answer, "I only wish that you had helped me just now,
even if it had been only with those words, for I should have 

The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  435
 the fruit."  But said Minerva, "Let anyone say what he will
the olive is more dear to me on account of its fruit."  Then said
Jupiter, "My daughter, you 

The Mother and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  232
 throw you
out of the window, and the Wolf shall eat you."  The Wolf sat all
day waiting at the door.  In the evening he heard the same woman
fondling 

The Ass and the Horse 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  352
  The Ass
replied, "Thank you.  But I can't think that you, who refuse me a
little matter now.  will by and by confer on me a greater
benefit."  

Truth and the Traveler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  173
 thou?"
"My name is Truth," she replied.  "And for what cause," he asked,
"have you left the city to dwell alone here in the wilderness?"
She made answer, "Because 

The Manslayer 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  52
 MAN committed a murder, and was pursued by the relations of the
man whom he murdered.  On his reaching the river Nile he saw a
Lion on its bank 

The Lion and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  324
 jealous of the Lion carrying off the Lion's
share, and said that he would no longer find out the prey, but
would capture it on his own account.  The next 

The Lion and the Eagle 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  24
AN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an
alliance with him to their mutual advantage.  The Lion replied,
"I 

The Hen and the Swallow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  153
 A Swallow, observing what she
had done, said, "You silly creature! why have you hatched these
vipers which, when they shall have grown, will inflict injury on
all, 

The Buffoon and the Countryman 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  836
 audience declared he had a porker under
his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.  When that
was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, 

The Crow and the Serpent 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  245
 bird exclaimed:  "O unhappy me! who have found in that which I
deemed a happy windfall the source of my destruction."  


The Hunter and the Horseman 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  138
 On his way he met a man on
horseback who begged the hare of him, under the pretense of
purchasing it.  However, when the Horseman got the hare, 

The King's Son and the Painted Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  86
 of martial exercises, had a dream
in which he was warned that his son would be killed by a lion. 
Afraid the dream should prove true, he built for his 

The Cat and Venus 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  185
 to her
request and transformed her into a beautiful damsel, so that the
youth saw her and loved her, and took her home as his bride. 
While the two were 

The She-Goats and Their Beards 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  115
 request to Jupiter, the
He-Goats were sorely displeased and made complaint that the
females equaled them in dignity.  "Allow them," said Jupiter, "to
enjoy an empty honor and to 

The Camel and the Arab 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  206
 touch of reason:  "Why do you
ask me? Is it that the level way through the desert is closed?"


The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  1985
 and ashamed, made the best of his way home again,
convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased
nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.  

The Crow and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  21
A TROUBLESOME CROW seated herself on the back of a Sheep.  The
Sheep, much against his will, carried her backward and forward
for 

The Fox and the Bramble 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  14
A FOX was mounting a hedge when he lost his footing and caught
hold of a Bramble to save himself.  Having pricked 

The Wolf and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  224
 at a safe distance, the Wolf exclaimed,
"You have unrighteously taken that which was mine from me!"  To
which the Lion jeeringly replied, "It was righteously yours, eh?
The gift of 

The Dog and the Oyster 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  272
 said, "I deserve all this torment, for my
folly in thinking that everything round must be an egg."  
They who act without sufficient thought, will often fall into
unsuspected danger. 

The Ant and the Dove 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  541
 foot.  In pain the
birdcatcher threw down the twigs, and the noise made the Dove
take wing.  


The Partridge and the Fowler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  13
A FOWLER caught a Partridge and was about to kill it.  The
Partridge earnestly begged him to spare his life, saying, "Pray,
master, 

The Flea and the Man 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  49
 MAN, very much annoyed with a Flea, caught him at last, and
said, "Who are you who dare to feed on my limbs, and to cost me
so much trouble 

The Thieves and the Cock 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  295
 them up in the night to their work."  "That is the very
reason why we must the more kill you," they replied; "for when
you wake your neighbors, you 

The Dog and the Cook 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  426
 in the joy of his heart, "How glad I am that
I came! I do not often get such a chance as this.  I will take
care and eat enough to 

The Travelers and the Plane-Tree 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  211
 its shade, one of the Travelers
said to the other, "What a singularly useless tree is the Plane!
It bears no fruit, and is not of the least service 

The Hares and the Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  616
 friends, do not do as you
intended; for you now see that there are creatures who are still
more timid than ourselves."  


The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  828
 hold a conversation with him.  After a time he
observed that the Elephant shook his ears very often, and he
inquired what was the matter and why his 

The Lamb and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  158
 "The Priest will slay you in
sacrifice, if he should catch you."  On which the Lamb replied,
"It would be better for me to be sacrificed in the 

The Rich Man and the Tanner 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  193
 Tanner put off his departure from time to time, saying
that he would leave soon.  But as he still continued to stay, as
time went on, the rich man became 

The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  186
 upon the Sea, loaded it with reproaches.  He argued that
it enticed men with the calmness of its looks, but when it had
induced them to plow its 

The Mules and the Robbers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  282
 his burden, and tossed up and down the
clear-toned bells fastened to his neck.  His companion followed
with quiet and easy step.  All of a sudden Robbers 

The Viper and the File 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  78
 of a smith, sought from the tools
the means of satisfying his hunger.  He more particularly
addressed himself to a File, and asked of him the 

The Lion and the Shepherd 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  424
 Some time after, the
Shepherd, being imprisoned on a false accusation, was condemned
"to be cast to the Lions" as the punishment for his imputed
crime.  But when the 

The Camel and Jupiter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  71
 he saw the Bull adorned with horns, envied him
and wished that he himself could obtain the same honors.  He went
to Jupiter, and besought him to give 

The Panther and the Shepherds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  343
 night they returned home, not dreaming of
any danger, but supposing that on the morrow they would find him
dead.  The Panther, however, when he had recruited his feeble
strength, freed 

The Ass and the Charger 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  138
 while he himself had scarcely enough to
eat and not even that without hard work.  But when war broke out,
a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse, and riding him 

The Eagle and His Captor 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  47
AN EAGLE was once captured by a man, who immediately clipped his
wings and put him into his poultry-yard with the other birds, at
which treatment the Eagle was 

The Bald Man and the Fly 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  151
 slap.  Escaping, the Fly said mockingly,
"You who have wished to revenge, even with death, the Prick of a
tiny insect, see what you have done to yourself to 

The Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  273
 settled upon its branches and broke
them down with its weight, at once despoiling it of its beauty
and killing the tree.  But finding the Fig-Tree denuded of
leaves, 

The Eagle and the Kite 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  251
 am not able to find one."  "Take me," returned the
Kite, "I am much stronger than you are."  "Why, are you able to
secure the means of 

The Ass and His Driver 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  50
AN ASS, being driven along a high road, suddenly started off and
bolted to the brink of a deep precipice.  While he was in the act
of throwing himself 

The Thrush and the Fowler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  276
 Thrush, being at the point of death,
exclaimed, "O foolish creature that I am! For the sake of a
little pleasant food I have deprived myself of my life."  


The Rose and the Amaranth 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  72
 in a garden near a Rose-Tree, thus addressed
it:  "What a lovely flower is the Rose, a favorite alike with Gods
and with men.  I envy you your 

The Frogs' Complaint Against the Sun 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  345
 compels us to die
miserably in our arid homes.  What will be our future condition
if he should beget other suns?'  


Ordering documents based on Rank: 
1 The Ass and the Grasshopper 

2 The Sick Lion 

3 The Wolf and the Horse 

4 The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass 

5 The Ass and the Wolf 

6 The Flea and the Ox 

7 The Horse and His Rider 

8 The Fox and the Woodcutter 

9 The Ass and the Old Shepherd 

10 The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller 

11 The Ox and the Frog 

12 The Lion and the Dolphin 

13 The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox 

14 The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass 

15 The Mules and the Robbers 

16 The Fly and the Draught-Mule 

17 The Hare and the Hound 

18 The Milk-Woman and Her Pail 

19 The Fox and the Monkey 

20 The Cat and the Birds 

21 The Thief and His Mother 

22 The Bowman and Lion 

23 The Man and His Wife 

24 The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse 

25 The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant 

26 The Panther and the Shepherds 

27 The Dog and the Cook 

28 The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail 

29 The Ass Carrying the Image 

30 The Old Lion 

31 The Ass and His Masters 

32 The Lion and the Hare 

33 The Fox and the Monkey 

34 The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods 

35 The Ass and the Horse 

36 The Viper and the File 

37 The Widow and Her Little Maidens 

38 The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat 

39 The Camel and the Arab 

40 The Hare and the Tortoise 

41 The Cat and the Cock 

42 Mercury and the Sculptor 

43 The Traveler and Fortune 

44 The Lark and Her Young Ones 

45 The Wolf and the Lamb 

46 The Lion and the Mouse 

47 The Wild Ass and the Lion 

48 The Bull and the Goat 

49 The Peacock and Juno 

50 The Mother and the Wolf 

51 The Hares and the Frogs 

52 The Man and the Satyr 

53 The Bald Man and the Fly 

54 The Eagle and the Kite 

55 The Lioness 

56 The Oxen and the Butchers 

57 The Two Dogs 

58 The Two Pots 

59 The Monkey and the Fishermen 

60 The Mole and His Mother 

61 The Farmer and the Stork 

62 The Goods and the Ills 

63 The Goatherd and the Wild Goats 

64 The Fisherman and the Little Fish 

65 The Lion in a Farmyard 

66 The Laborer and the Snake 

67 The Oak and the Reeds 

68 The Apes and the Two Travelers 

69 The Grasshopper and the Owl 

70 The Flea and the Man 

71 The Peasant and the Apple-Tree 

72 The Man and the Lion 

73 The Cobbler Turned Doctor 

74 The Partridge and the Fowler 

75 The Bald Knight 

76 The Frogs Asking for a King 

77 The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion 

78 The Monkey and the Dolphin 

79 The Wolf and the Shepherd 

80 The Eagle and the Jackdaw 

81 The Rose and the Amaranth 

82 The Wolf and the Fox 

83 The Hares and the Lions 

84 The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion 

85 The Flies and the Honey-Pot 

86 The Mice in Council 

87 The Ants and the Grasshopper 

88 The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock 

89 The Buffoon and the Countryman 

90 The Vain Jackdaw 

91 The Hen and the Golden Eggs 

92 The Ass and the Mule 

93 The Vine and the Goat 

94 Jupiter and the Monkey 

95 The Heifer and the Ox 

96 The Playful Ass 

97 The Two Frogs 

98 The Crow and the Raven 

99 The Travelers and the Plane-Tree 

100 The Salt Merchant and His Ass 

101 The Miser 

102 The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice 

103 The Huntsman and the Fisherman 

104 The Hares and the Foxes 

105 The Fowler and the Viper 

106 The Dog and the Oyster 

107 The Father and His Sons 

108 The Old Woman and the Physician 

109 The Peacock and the Crane 

110 The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea 

111 The Kites and the Swans 

112 The Fox and the Goat 

113 The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat 

114 The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar 

115 The Thief and the Innkeeper 

116 

117 The Fox and the Bramble 

118 The Old Man and Death 

119 The Man Bitten by a Dog 

120 The Eagle and the Arrow 

121 The Two Travelers and the Axe 

122 The Old Hound 

123 The Seaside Travelers 

124 The Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow 

125 The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox 

126 The Lion and the Bull 

127 The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox 

128 The Mice and the Weasels 

129 The Wolves and the Sheepdogs 

130 The Brother and the Sister 

131 The Sparrow and the Hare 

132 The Gnat and the Bull 

133 The Two Men Who Were Enemies 

134 The Hart and the Vine 

135 The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog 

136 The Tortoise and the Eagle  

137 The Farmer and the Cranes 

138 The Farmer and His Sons 

139 The Crab and Its Mother 

140 The Sick Kite 

141 The Rivers and the Sea 

142 The Hunter and the Woodman 

143 The Dog and the Hare 

144 The Kid and the Wolf 

145 The Seller of Images 

146 The Blind Man and the Whelp 

147 The Lion and the Eagle 

148 The Crow and the Serpent 

149 The Wolf and the Lion 

150 The Farmer and the Fox 

151 The Wolves and the Sheep 

152 The Belly and the Members 

153 The Stag in the Ox-Stall 

154 Truth and the Traveler 

155 Mercury and the Workmen 

156 The Ass and the Lapdog 

157 The Bear and the Two Travelers 

158 The Goat and the Goatherd 

159 The Boys and the Frogs 

160 The Lion and the Boar 

161 The Lamp 

162 The Fox and the Grapes 

163 The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer 

164 The Lion and the Shepherd 

165 The Owl and the Birds 

166 Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus 

167 The Widow and the Sheep 

168 The Bee and Jupiter 

169 The Fox and the Hedgehog 

170 The Mule 

171 The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf 

172 The Doe and the Lion 

173 The Ass and His Shadow 

174 The Two Frogs 

175 The Monkey and the Camel 

176 The Wasp and the Snake 

177 The Dove and the Crow 

178 The Shepherd and the Sheep 

179 The Lamb and the Wolf 

180 The Thrush and the Fowler 

181 The Fox and the Crane 

182 The Herdsman and the Lost Bull 

183 The Walnut-Tree 

184 The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner 

185 The Two Soldiers and the Robber 

186 The Thieves and the Cock 

187 The Mountain in Labor 

188 The Eagle and the Fox 

189 The Fox and the Crow 

190 The Horse and the Ass 

191 The Lion in Love 

192 The Bitch and Her Whelps 

193 The Ass and the Charger 

194 The Boy Hunting Locusts 

195 The Cat and the Mice 

196 The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep 

197 The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape 

198 The Crow and the Sheep 

199 The Eagle and His Captor 

200 The Frogs' Complaint Against the Sun 

201 The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons 

202 The Horse and the Stag 

203 The Lion and the Fox 

204 The One-Eyed Doe 

205 The Gnat and the Lion 

206 The Ass and His Purchaser 

207 The Sick Stag 

208 The Kid and the Wolf 

209 The Wolf and the Goat 

210 The Fir-Tree and the Bramble 

211 The Aethiop 

212 The Boy and the Nettles 

213 The Fox and the Lion 

214 The Stag at the Pool 

215 The She-Goats and Their Beards 

216 The Gamecocks and the Partridge 

217 The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing 

218 The Bull and the Calf 

219 The Rich Man and the Tanner 

220 The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter 

221 The Father and His Two Daughters 

222 The Traveler and His Dog 

223 The Astronomer 

224 The Wolf and the Housedog 

225 The Dancing Monkeys 

226 The Oaks and Jupiter 

227 The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk 

228 The Jackdaw and the Doves 

229 The Kingdom of the Lion 

230 The Farmer and the Snake 

231 The Boy and the Filberts 

232 The Thief and the Housedog 

233 The Bat and the Weasels 

234 The Monkeys and Their Mother 

235 The Dogs and the Hides 

236 The Fishermen 

237 The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat 

238 The Master and His Dogs 

239 The Swollen Fox 

240 The Mouse and the Bull 

241 The Prophet 

242 The Hawk and the Nightingale 

243 The Wild Boar and the Fox 

244 The Shepherd and the Wolf 

245 The Spendthrift and the Swallow 

246 The Lion and the Three Bulls 

247 Hercules and the Wagoner 

248 The Shepherd and the Sea 

249 The Ass and the Frogs 

250 The Charger and the Miller 

251 The Man and His Two Sweethearts 

252 The North Wind and the Sun 

253 The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter 

254 The Dogs and the Fox 

255 The Hen and the Swallow 

256 The Hunter and the Horseman 

257 The Brazier and His Dog 

258 The Fox and the Mask 

259 The Woman and Her Hen 

260 The Oxen and the Axle-Trees 

261 The Wolf and the Sheep 

262 The Dog and the Shadow 

263 The Boasting Traveler 

264 The Trees and the Axe 

265 The Peasant and the Eagle 

266 The Fox and the Lion 

267 The Lark Burying Her Father 

268 The Cat and Venus 

269 The Camel and Jupiter 

270 The Flea and the Wrestler 

271 The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury 

272 The Boy Bathing 

273 The Fisherman Piping 

274 The Fawn and His Mother 

275 The Mischievous Dog 

276 The Weasel and the Mice 

277 The Wolf and the Lion 

278 The Jackdaw and the Fox 

279 The King's Son and the Painted Lion 

280 The Swallow and the Crow 

281 The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox 

282 The Crab and the Fox 

283 The Camel 

284 The Serpent and the Eagle 

285 The Dog's House 

286 The Cock and the Jewel 

287 The Horse and Groom 

288 The Wolf and the Shepherds 

289 The Oak and the Woodcutters 

290 The Crow and Mercury 

291 The Swan and the Goose 

292 The Crow and the Pitcher 

293 The Manslayer 

294 The Ass and His Driver 

295 The Ass in the Lion's Skin 

296 The Bear and the Fox 

297 The Quack Frog 

298 The Thirsty Pigeon 

299 The Dog in the Manger 

300 The Seagull and the Kite 

301 The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle 

302 The Geese and the Cranes 

303 The Wolf and the Crane 

304 The Three Tradesmen 

305 The Two Bags 

306 The Ant and the Dove 

307 The Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree 

308 The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble 

309 The Raven and the Swan 

310 The Fisherman and His Nets 

311 The Shepherd and the Dog 

