What is your query? The Wolf and the Lamb 

Exact Match Found at:  427
 replied
the Lamb, "I have not yet tasted grass."  Again said the Wolf,
"You drink of my well."  "No," exclaimed the Lamb, 

The Wolf and the Lamb 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  427
 replied
the Lamb, "I have not yet tasted grass."  Again said the Wolf,
"You drink of my well."  "No," exclaimed the Lamb, 

The Bat and the Weasels 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  108
 Weasel pleaded
to be spared his life.  The Weasel refused, saying that he was by
nature the enemy of all birds.  The Bat 

The Ass and the Grasshopper 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  46
AN ASS having heard some Grasshoppers chirping, was highly
enchanted; and, desiring to possess the same charms of melody,
demanded 

The Lion and the Mouse 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  83
 by a Mouse running over his face. 
Rising up angrily, he caught him and was about to kill him, when
the Mouse piteously entreated, saying: 

The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  81
 in his own house.  One day
he met a friend, a Fuller, and entreated him to come and live
with him, saying that they 

The Father and His Sons 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  314
 a bundle of sticks.  When they had done so, he
placed the faggot into the hands of each of them in succession,
and 

The Boy Hunting Locusts 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  61
 hunting for locusts.  He had caught a goodly number,
when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking him for a locust, reached
out his hand 

The Cock and the Jewel 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A COCK, scratching for food for himself and his hens, found a
precious stone and 

The Kingdom of the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  85
 had a Lion as their king.  He
was neither wrathful, cruel, nor tyrannical, but just and gentle
as a king could be.  

The Wolf and the Crane 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  201
 the Crane had extracted the bone and demanded the promised
payment, the Wolf, grinning and grinding his teeth, exclaimed:
"Why, you have surely already had 

The Fisherman Piping 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  104
 his nets to the
seashore.  Standing on a projecting rock, he played several tunes
in the hope that the fish, attracted by his melody, 

Hercules and the Wagoner 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  439
 help, until you have done your best to help yourself, or
depend upon it you will henceforth pray in vain."  
Self-help is 

The Ants and the Grasshopper 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  99
 winter's day drying grain collected
in the summertime.  A Grasshopper, perishing with famine, passed
by and earnestly begged for a little food.  

The Traveler and His Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  229
 so come with me
instantly."  The Dog, wagging his tail, replied:  "O, master! I am
quite ready; it is you for whom I 

The Dog and the Shadow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  5
A DOG, crossing a bridge over a stream with a piece of flesh in
his mouth, 

The Mole and His Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A MOLE, a creature blind from birth, once said to his Mother:  "I
am sure 

The Herdsman and the Lost Bull 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  186
 could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he
would offer a lamb in sacrifice to Hermes, Pan, and the Guardian
Deities 

The Hare and the Tortoise 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  69
 day ridiculed the short feet and slow pace of the
Tortoise, who replied, laughing:  "Though you be swift as the
wind, I will 

The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  112
 the most
beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble from
the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in 

The Farmer and the Stork 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  78
 nets on his newly-sown plowlands and caught a
number of Cranes, which came to pick up his seed.  With them he
trapped a Stork 

The Farmer and the Snake 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  86
 stiff and frozen with cold.  He
had compassion on it, and taking it up, placed it in his bosom. 
The Snake was quickly revived 

The Fawn and His Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  36
A YOUNG FAWN once said to his Mother, "You are larger than a dog,
and swifter, and more used to running, and 

The Bear and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  44
A BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy, saying that of all
animals he was the most tender in his regard for 

The Swallow and the Crow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  108
 
The Crow put an end to the dispute by saying, "Your feathers are
all very well in the spring, but mine protect me 

The Mountain in Labor 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  72
 was once greatly agitated.  Loud groans and noises
were heard, and crowds of people came from all parts to see what
was the matter. 

The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  19
THE ASS and the Fox, having entered into partnership together for
their mutual protection, went out into the 

The Tortoise and the Eagle  

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  10
A TORTOISE, lazily basking in the sun, complained to the
sea-birds of her hard fate, that 

The Flies and the Honey-Pot 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  100
 jar of honey which had been
overturned in a housekeeper's room, and placing their feet in it,
ate greedily.  Their feet, however, became so 

The Man and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  175
 each other in
strength and prowess.  As they were disputing, they passed a
statue carved in stone, which represented "a Lion strangled by 

The Farmer and the Cranes 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  107
 newly
sown with wheat.  For a long time the Farmer, brandishing an
empty sling, chased them away by the terror he inspired; 

The Dog in the Manger 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  215
 of them to his companions; "he
cannot eat the hay himself, and yet refuses to allow those to eat
who can."  


The Fox and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  122
 A Goat, overcome with thirst, came to the same well, and
seeing the Fox, inquired if the water was good.  Concealing his
sad 

The Bear and the Two Travelers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  31
TWO MEN were traveling together, when a Bear suddenly met them on
their path.  One of them climbed 

The Oxen and the Axle-Trees 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  136
 of
Oxen.  The Axle-trees groaned and creaked terribly; whereupon the
Oxen, turning round, thus addressed the wheels:  "Hullo there! why
do you make 

The Thirsty Pigeon 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
A PIGEON, oppressed by excessive thirst, saw a goblet of water
painted on a signboard. 

The Raven and the Swan 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  181
 from his washing in the water in which he swam, the
Raven left the altars in the neighborhood where he picked up his
living, 

The Goat and the Goatherd 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  189
 the summons.  At last the Goatherd threw a stone,
and breaking its horn, begged the Goat not to tell his master. 
The 

The Miser 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  54
 all that he had and bought a lump of gold, which he
buried in a hole in the ground by the side of 

The Sick Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A LION, unable from old age and infirmities to provide himself
with food by force, resolved 

The Horse and Groom 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  75
 to spend whole days in currycombing and rubbing down
his Horse, but at the same time stole his oats and sold them for
his own profit. 

The Ass and the Lapdog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  16
A MAN had an Ass, and a Maltese Lapdog, a very great beauty.  The
Ass was left in 

The Lioness 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  279
 and demanded of her the
settlement of the dispute. "And you," they said, "how many sons
have you at a birth?'  The Lioness laughed 

The Boasting Traveler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  57
 MAN who had traveled in foreign lands boasted very much, on
returning to his own country, of the many wonderful and heroic
feats he 

The Cat and the Cock 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  19
A CAT caught a Cock, and pondered how he might find a reasonable
excuse for eating him.  He 

The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  115
 
On one occasion when the shepherd laid hold of him, he grunted
and squeaked and resisted violently.  The Sheep and the Goat
complained 

The Boy and the Filberts 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  97
 filberts.  He grasped
as many as he could possibly hold, but when he tried to pull out
his hand, he was prevented from doing so 

The Lion in Love 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  69
 demanded the daughter of a woodcutter in marriage.  The
Father, unwilling to grant, and yet afraid to refuse his request,
hit upon this 

The Laborer and the Snake 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  7
A SNAKE, having made his hole close to the porch of a cottage,
inflicted a mortal 

The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  128
 food more easily.  Encased in the skin of a
sheep, he pastured with the flock deceiving the shepherd by his
costume.  In the 

The Ass and the Mule 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  33
A MULETEER set forth on a journey, driving before him an Ass and
a Mule, both well laden.  The 

The Frogs Asking for a King 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  9
THE FROGS, grieved at having no established Ruler, sent
ambassadors to Jupiter entreating for a King. 

The Boys and the Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  9
SOME BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the
water and began 

The Sick Stag 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  127
 companions came in great numbers to inquire after his health,
and each one helped himself to a share of the food which had 

The Salt Merchant and His Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  106
 His road
home lay across a stream into which his Ass, making a false step,
fell by accident and rose up again with his load 

The Oxen and the Butchers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  56
 OXEN once upon a time sought to destroy the Butchers, who
practiced a trade destructive to their race.  They assembled on a
certain 

The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A LION, fatigued by the heat of a summer's day, fell fast asleep
in his den. 

The Vain Jackdaw 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  18
JUPITER DETERMINED, it is said, to create a sovereign over the
birds, and made proclamation that on 

The Goatherd and the Wild Goats 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  10
A GOATHERD, driving his flock from their pasture at eventide,
found some Wild Goats mingled among 

The Mischievous Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  60
 run up quietly to the heels of everyone he met, and
to bite them without notice.  His master suspended a bell about
his neck 

The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  597
 interrupting him said, "If you had
not yourself lost your tail, my friend, you would not thus
counsel us."  


The Boy and the Nettles 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  326
 not in the least hurt you."  
Whatever you do, do with all your might.  


The Man and His Two Sweethearts 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  219
 woman, ashamed to be courted
by a man younger than herself, made a point, whenever her admirer
visited her, to pull out some portion of 

The Astronomer 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  72
 go out at night to observe the stars.  One
evening, as he wandered through the suburbs with his whole
attention fixed on the sky, 

The Wolves and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  281
 harm.  If you would only
dismiss them from your heels, there might soon be treaties of
peace and reconciliation between us."  The Sheep, 

The Old Woman and the Physician 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  44
AN OLD WOMAN having lost the use of her eyes, called in a
Physician to heal them, and made this bargain with him 

The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  222
 quiet corner, while the
conqueror, flying up to a high wall, flapped his wings and crowed
exultingly with all his might.  An Eagle 

The Charger and the Miller 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  9
A CHARGER, feeling the infirmities of age, was sent to work in a
mill instead 

The Fox and the Monkey 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  49
A MONKEY once danced in an assembly of the Beasts, and so pleased
them all by his performance that they elected him their 

The Horse and His Rider 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  82
 pains with his charger.  As long
as the war lasted, he looked upon him as his fellow-helper in all
emergencies and fed him carefully 

The Belly and the Members 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  50
THE MEMBERS of the Body rebelled against the Belly, and said,
"Why should we be perpetually engaged in administering to your
wants, while 

The Vine and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  75
 the time of vintage with leaves and
grapes.  A Goat, passing by, nibbled its young tendrils and its
leaves.  The Vine addressed 

Jupiter and the Monkey 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  194
 the handsomest.  The Monkey came with the rest and
presented, with all a mother's tenderness, a flat-nosed,
hairless, ill-featured young Monkey as a candidate 

The Widow and Her Little Maidens 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  129
 was in the habit of waking them early in the
morning, at cockcrow.  The maidens, aggravated by such excessive
labor, resolved to kill the cock 

The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  213
 to help him, laughed at
them for their pains.  The Wolf, however, did truly come at last. 
The Shepherd-boy, now really alarmed, 

The Cat and the Birds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  287
 inmates how they all did,
saying that if they were ill, he would be happy to prescribe for
them and cure them.  They replied, 

The Kid and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  129
 by and immediately began to taunt and revile him. 
The Wolf, looking up, said, "Sirrah! I hear thee:  yet it is 

The Ox and the Frog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  111
 one of them to death.  The Mother coming up, and missing
one of her sons, inquired of his brothers what had become 

The Shepherd and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  136
 taught it to steal lambs from the neighboring
flocks.  The Wolf, having shown himself an apt pupil, said to the
Shepherd, "Since you 

The Father and His Two Daughters 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  23
A MAN had two daughters, the one married to a gardener, and the
other to a tile-maker.  After 

The Farmer and His Sons 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
A FATHER, being on the point of death, wished to be sure that his
sons would 

The Crab and Its Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  22
A CRAB said to her son, "Why do you walk so one-sided, my child?
It is far more becoming to go 

The Heifer and the Ox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  51
 saw an Ox hard at work harnessed to a plow, and
tormented him with reflections on his unhappy fate in being
compelled to labor. 

The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  9
A SWALLOW, returning from abroad and especially fond of dwelling
with men, built herself a 

The Thief and His Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  128
 his Mother.  She not only abstained from beating him,
but encouraged him.  He next time stole a cloak and brought 

The Old Man and Death 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  53
 OLD MAN was employed in cutting wood in the forest, and, in
carrying the faggots to the city for sale one day, became 

The Fir-Tree and the Bramble 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  41
A FIR-TREE said boastingly to the Bramble, "You are useful for
nothing at all; while I am everywhere used for roofs 

The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  182
 the water.  The Frog, one day intent on mischief, bound the
foot of the Mouse tightly to his own.  Thus joined 

The Man Bitten by a Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  95
 in quest of someone
who might heal him.  A friend, meeting him and learning what he
wanted, said, "If you would be cured, take 

The Two Pots 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  43
A RIVER carried down in its stream two Pots, one made of
earthenware and the other of brass.  The Earthen Pot 

The Wolf and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A WOLF, sorely wounded and bitten by dogs, lay sick and maimed in
his lair. 

The Aethiop 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  204
 On bringing him home he resorted to every means
of cleaning, and subjected the man to incessant scrubbings.  The
servant caught a severe cold, 

The Fisherman and His Nets 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  11
A FISHERMAN, engaged in his calling, made a very successful cast
and captured a great haul 

The Huntsman and the Fisherman 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  10
A HUNTSMAN, returning with his dogs from the field, fell in by
chance with a 

The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  194
 contents.  She greedily placed it several times to her
nose, and drawing it backwards and forwards said, "O most
delicious! How nice must the 

The Fox and the Crow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  132
  A Fox, seeing this, longed to possess the meat
himself, and by a wily stratagem succeeded.  "How handsome is the
Crow," he exclaimed, in 

The Two Dogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  28
A MAN had two dogs:  a Hound, trained to assist him in his sports,
and a Housedog, taught to watch the 

The Stag in the Ox-Stall 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A STAG, roundly chased by the hounds and blinded by fear to the
danger he was 

The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  11
THE PIGEONS, terrified by the appearance of a Kite, called upon
the Hawk to defend them. 

The Widow and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  134
 take his fleece and to avoid expense, she sheared him
herself, but used the shears so unskillfully that with the fleece
she sheared the flesh. 

The Wild Ass and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  175
 The Lion
agreed to assist the Wild Ass with his strength, while the Wild
Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed. 

The Eagle and the Arrow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  28
AN EAGLE sat on a lofty rock, watching the movements of a Hare
whom he sought to make his prey. 

The Sick Kite 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A KITE, sick unto death, said to his mother:  "O Mother! do not
mourn, but 

The Lion and the Dolphin 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  542
 quite willing to give him
assistance, was unable to do so, as he could not by any means
reach the land.  The Lion abused him 

The Lion and the Boar 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  15
ON A SUMMER DAY, when the great heat induced a general thirst
among the beasts, a Lion and 

The One-Eyed Doe 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  101
 near to the
edge of the cliff as she possibly could, in the hope of securing
her greater safety.  She turned her sound eye towards 

The Shepherd and the Sea 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  10
A SHEPHERD, keeping watch over his sheep near the shore, saw the
Sea very calm 

The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  59
 a Cock were in a straw-yard together when a Lion,
desperate from hunger, approached the spot.  He was about to
spring upon 

The Mice and the Weasels 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  62
 and the Mice waged a perpetual war with each other,
in which much blood was shed.  The Weasels were always the
victors.  

The Mice in Council 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  170
 their great enemy
the Cat.  Among the many plans suggested, the one that found most
favor was the proposal to tie a bell to 

The Wolf and the Housedog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A WOLF, meeting a big well-fed Mastiff with a wooden collar about
his neck asked him 

The Rivers and the Sea 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  49
THE RIVERS joined together to complain to the Sea, saying, "Why
is it that when we flow into your tides so potable 

The Playful Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  43
AN ASS climbed up to the roof of a building, and frisking about
there, broke in the tiling.  The owner went up 

The Three Tradesmen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  25
A GREAT CITY was besieged, and its inhabitants were called
together to consider the best means of protecting 

The Master and His Dogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  313
 and said, "It is time for us to be off, for if
the master spare not his oxen, who work for his gain, 

The Wolf and the Shepherds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A WOLF, passing by, saw some Shepherds in a hut eating a haunch
of mutton for 

The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  94
 with each other.  When
the battle was at its height, a Sprat lifted its head out of the
waves and said that he would 

The Ass Carrying the Image 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  257
 that they bowed their heads in token of respect for
himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and refused
to move another step. 

The Two Travelers and the Axe 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  86
 of them picked up an axe
that lay upon the path, and said, "I have found an axe."  "Nay, my
friend," replied the other, "do 

The Old Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A LION, worn out with years and powerless from disease, lay on
the ground at the 

The Old Hound 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  7
A HOUND, who in the days of his youth and strength had never
yielded to any beast 

The Bee and Jupiter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  25
A BEE from Mount Hymettus, the queen of the hive, ascended to
Olympus to present Jupiter some honey fresh from 

The Milk-Woman and Her Pail 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  81
 carrying her Pail of milk from the field
to the farmhouse, when she fell a-musing.  "The money for which
this milk will be sold, 

The Seaside Travelers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  83
 along the seashore, climbed to the
summit of a tall cliff, and looking over the sea, saw in the
distance what they thought was a 

The Brazier and His Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  26
A BRAZIER had a little Dog, which was a great favorite with his
master, and his constant companion.  While he 

The Ass and His Shadow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  86
 him to a distant place.  The
day being intensely hot, and the sun shining in its strength, the
Traveler stopped to rest, and sought 

The Ass and His Masters 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
AN ASS, belonging to an herb-seller who gave him too little food
and too much work 

The Oak and the Reeds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  95
 and thrown across a
stream.  It fell among some Reeds, which it thus addressed:  "I
wonder how you, who are so light and 

The Fisherman and the Little Fish 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  530
 Fisherman replied, "I should indeed be a very
simple fellow if, for the chance of a greater uncertain profit, I
were to forego my present 

The Hunter and the Woodman 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  394
 that; it is his track
only I am in search of, not the Lion himself."  
The hero is brave in deeds as well 

The Wild Boar and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  210
 no danger threatening from either huntsman
or hound.  He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never do
to have to sharpen my 

The Lion in a Farmyard 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  38
A LION entered a farmyard.  The Farmer, wishing to catch him,
shut the gate.  When the Lion found that he 

Mercury and the Sculptor 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  350
 were valued was named, he
pointed to a figure of himself, saying to the Sculptor, "You will
certainly want much more for this, as it 

The Swan and the Goose 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  176
 its
song.  When the time came for killing the Goose, the cook went to
get him at night, when it was dark, and he 

The Swollen Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  17
A VERY HUNGRY FOX, seeing some bread and meat left by shepherds
in the hollow of an oak, 

The Fox and the Woodcutter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  5
A FOX, running before the hounds, came across a Woodcutter
felling an oak and begged 

The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  123
 a
friend unexpectedly came in.  The bird-trap was quite empty, as
he had caught nothing, and he had to kill a pied Partridge, which
he 

The Monkey and the Fishermen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  486
 and
drowned.  With his last breath he said to himself, "I am rightly
served; for what business had I who had never handled 

The Flea and the Wrestler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  59
 upon the bare foot of a Wrestler and bit him,
causing the man to call loudly upon Hercules for help.  When the
Flea 

The Two Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  81
 pool.  When the pool dried up under
the summer's heat, they left it and set out together for another
home.  As they went along 

The Cat and the Mice 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  45
A CERTAIN HOUSE was overrun with Mice.  A Cat, discovering this,
made her way into it and began to catch and 

The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  49
 and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment, and fought
fiercely for its possession.  When they had fearfully lacerated
each 

The Doe and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  342
 mouth of a wild beast?'  
In avoiding one evil, care must be taken not to fall into
another.  


The Farmer and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
A FARMER, who bore a grudge against a Fox for robbing his poultry
yard, caught him at 

The Seagull and the Kite 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  45
A SEAGULL having bolted down too large a fish, burst its deep
gullet-bag and lay down on the shore to die.  

The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  534
 them all to death with his foot.  Mercury
presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with his wand,
said, "And are you indeed to 

The Mouse and the Bull 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  32
A BULL was bitten by a Mouse and, angered by the wound, tried to
capture him.  But the Mouse reached his 

The Lion and the Hare 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  351
 Hare.  On
finding that the Hare also had run off, he said, "I am rightly
served, for having let go of the food that I 

The Peasant and the Eagle 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  43
A PEASANT found an Eagle captured in a trap, and much admiring
the bird, set him free.  The Eagle did not 

The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  341
 it against the wall. 
When its head was knocked off, out came a stream of gold, which
the Carpenter quickly picked up and said, 

The Bull and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A BULL, escaping from a Lion, hid in a cave which some shepherds
had recently occupied. 

The Dancing Monkeys 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  330
 great applause, till on one occasion a courtier,
bent on mischief, took from his pocket a handful of nuts and
threw them upon the stage. 

The Monkeys and Their Mother 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  10
THE MONKEY, it is said, has two young ones at each birth.  The
Mother fondles one 

The Oaks and Jupiter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  41
THE OAKS presented a complaint to Jupiter, saying, "We bear for
no purpose the burden of life, as of all the 

The Hare and the Hound 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  36
A HOUND started a Hare from his lair, but after a long run, gave
up the chase.  A goat-herd seeing him stop, 

The Traveler and Fortune 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  47
A TRAVELER wearied from a long journey lay down, overcome with
fatigue, on the very brink of a deep well.  

The Bald Knight 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  13
A BALD KNIGHT, who wore a wig, went out to hunt.  A sudden puff
of wind blew 

The Shepherd and the Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  92
 the night was about
to shut up a wolf with them, when his Dog perceiving the wolf
said, "Master, how can you expect the sheep 

The Lamp 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A LAMP, soaked with too much oil and flaring brightly, boasted
that it gave more light 

The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
THE LION, the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist
each other in the 

The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  90
 him to death with his
horns.  The Lioness came up, and bitterly lamented the death of
her whelp.  A wild-boar Hunter, seeing 

The Oak and the Woodcutters 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  61
 cut down a Mountain Oak and split it in pieces,
making wedges of its own branches for dividing the trunk.  The
Oak said 

The Hen and the Golden Eggs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  143
 Hen must contain a great lump of
gold in its inside, and in order to get the gold they killed it. 
Having done so, they 

The Ass and the Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  325
 do if you had to live here always as we
do, when you make such a fuss about a mere fall into the water?"


The Crow and the Raven 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  31
A CROW was jealous of the Raven, because he was considered a bird
of good omen and always attracted the attention 

The Trees and the Axe 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  210
 the man fitted a new handle
to his axe from it, than he began to use it and quickly felled
with his strokes the noblest giants 

The Crab and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A CRAB, forsaking the seashore, chose a neighboring green meadow
as its feeding ground.  

The Woman and Her Hen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  126
 pondered how she might obtain two eggs daily instead of
one, and at last, to gain her purpose, determined to give the Hen
a double allowance 

The Ass and the Old Shepherd 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  10
A SHEPHERD, watching his Ass feeding in a meadow, was alarmed all
of a sudden by 

The Kites and the Swans 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  24
TEE KITES of olden times, as well as the Swans, had the privilege
of song.  But having heard the 

The Wolves and the Sheepdogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  57
THE WOLVES thus addressed the Sheepdogs:  "Why should you, who are
like us in so many things, not be entirely of one mind 

The Hares and the Foxes 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  35
THE HARES waged war with the Eagles, and called upon the Foxes to
help them.  They replied, "We would willingly 

The Bowman and Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  62
 SKILLFUL BOWMAN went to the mountains in search of game,
but all the beasts of the forest fled at his approach.  The 

The Camel 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  28
WHEN MAN first saw the Camel, he was so frightened at his vast
size that he ran away.  After 

The Wasp and the Snake 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  50
 WASP seated himself upon the head of a Snake and, striking him
unceasingly with his stings, wounded him to death.  The 

The Dog and the Hare 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  75
 started a Hare on the hillside pursued her for
some distance, at one time biting her with his teeth as if he
would take her 

The Bull and the Calf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  128
 led to his stall.  A young Calf came up,
and offered to go before and show him the way by which he could
manage 

The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  51
 asked a Sheep to lend him a measure of wheat, and said
that the Wolf would be his surety.  The Sheep, fearing some 

The Peacock and the Crane 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  67
 PEACOCK spreading its gorgeous tail mocked a Crane that passed
by, ridiculing the ashen hue of its plumage and saying, "I am
robed, like 

The Fox and the Hedgehog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  99
 by the force of
the current into a very deep ravine, where he lay for a long time
very much bruised, sick, and unable to move. 

The Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  55
 nest at the top of a lofty oak; a Cat, having
found a convenient hole, moved into the middle of the trunk; and
a 

The Thief and the Innkeeper 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  923
 a second fit
of yawning and again howled like a wolf, as he had at first.  The
Innkeeper.  hearing his tale and believing what 

The Mule 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  375
 "I must have made a mistake; my father, after all, could
have been only an ass."  


The Hart and the Vine 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A HART, hard pressed in the chase, hid himself beneath the large
leaves of a Vine. 

The Serpent and the Eagle 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  105
 each other in deadly
conflict.  The Serpent had the advantage, and was about to
strangle the bird.  A countryman saw them, and running 

The Crow and the Pitcher 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  42
A CROW perishing with thirst saw a pitcher, and hoping to find
water, flew to it with delight.  When he reached 

The Two Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  52
TWO FROGS were neighbors.  One inhabited a deep pond, far removed
from public view; the other lived in a gully containing little
water, 

The Wolf and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  191
 and
swiftness, so that they unanimously decided to call him "Lion."
The Wolf, with a lack of sense proportioned to his enormous size,
thought that they 

The Walnut-Tree 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  96
 abundant crop of
fruit.  For the sake of the nuts, the passers-by broke its
branches with stones and sticks.  The Walnut-Tree piteously
exclaimed, 

The Gnat and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  30
A GNAT came and said to a Lion, "I do not in the least fear you,
nor are you stronger than I am.  

The Monkey and the Dolphin 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
A SAILOR, bound on a long voyage, took with him a Monkey to amuse
him while on 

The Jackdaw and the Doves 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  484
 among the
Doves, he returned to the Jackdaws.  They too, not recognizing
him on account of his color.  expelled him from 

The Horse and the Stag 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  129
 into his domain and shared his pasture.  The Horse,
desiring to revenge himself on the stranger, asked a man if he
were 

The Kid and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  148
 not escape, he turned round, and
said:  "I know, friend Wolf, that I must be your prey, but before
I die I would ask of 

The Prophet 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
A WIZARD, sitting in the marketplace, was telling the fortunes of
the passers-by when a person 

The Fox and the Monkey 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  79
 were traveling together on the same road.  As
they journeyed, they passed through a cemetery full of monuments. 
"All these monuments which 

The Thief and the Housedog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  407
 make me more watchful, lest under these
unexpected favors to myself, you have some private ends to
accomplish for your own benefit, and for my 

The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  7
A HORSE, Ox, and Dog, driven to great straits by the cold, sought
shelter and protection 

The Apes and the Two Travelers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  841
 me?'  "These," he made answer, "are worthy
companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and
leaders of armies."  The Ape and all 

The Wolf and the Shepherd 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  221
 and kept a strict
watch over his movements.  But when the Wolf, day after day, kept
in the company of the sheep and did 

The Hares and the Lions 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  32
THE HARES harangued the assembly, and argued that all should be
equal.  The Lions made this reply:  

The Lark and Her Young Ones 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  943
 to her brood, "It is time now to be off, my
little ones, for the man is in earnest this time; he no 

The Fox and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  40
WHEN A FOX who had never yet seen a Lion, fell in with him by
chance for the first time in the forest, he was 

The Weasel and the Mice 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
A WEASEL, inactive from age and infirmities, was not able to
catch mice as he once 

The Boy Bathing 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  102
 drowned.  He
called out to a passing traveler for help, but instead of holding
out a helping hand, the man stood by unconcernedly, and 

The Ass and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  104
 to seize him,
and immediately pretended to be lame.  The Wolf, coming up,
inquired the cause of his lameness.  The Ass replied 

The Seller of Images 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  109
 for
sale.  When no one appeared willing to buy it, in order to
attract purchasers, he cried out that he had the statue 

The Fox and the Grapes 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  131
  She resorted to all her tricks to get at
them, but wearied herself in vain, for she could not reach them. 
At 

The Man and His Wife 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  161
 had the same effect on the
persons in her father's house, he made some excuse to send her
home on a visit to her father. 

The Peacock and Juno 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  39
THE PEACOCK made complaint to Juno that, while the nightingale
pleased every ear with his song, he himself no sooner 

The Hawk and the Nightingale 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  13
A NIGHTINGALE, sitting aloft upon an oak and singing according to
his wont, was seen 

The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  276
 hollow trunk.  When the morning
dawned, the Cock, as usual, crowed very loudly several times.  A
Fox heard the sound, and wishing 

The Wolf and the Goat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  380
 not for the pasture that you invite me, but for
yourself, who are in want of food."  


The Lion and the Bull 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A LION, greatly desiring to capture a Bull, and yet afraid to
attack him on 



First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  44
 once kept a Goat and an Ass.  The Goat, envying the Ass on
account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefully
you 

The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  550
 and returned
to town with his friend.  On his arrival, the Town Mouse placed
before him bread, barley, beans, dried figs, honey, raisins, and,
last 

The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  216
 the Ape announced this
sentence:  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim;
and I do believe you, Fox, to have 

The Fly and the Draught-Mule 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  39
A FLY sat on the axle-tree of a chariot, and addressing the
Draught-Mule said, "How slow you are! Why do you not 

The Fishermen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  78
 out trawling their nets.  Perceiving them to
be very heavy, they danced about for joy and supposed that they
had taken a large catch. 

The Lion and the Three Bulls 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  104
 lay in
ambush in the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to
attack them while they kept together.  Having at last 

The Fowler and the Viper 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  419
 him, and
falling into a swoon, the man said to himself, "Woe is me! that
while I purposed to hunt another, I am myself fallen 

The Horse and the Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  7
A HORSE, proud of his fine trappings, met an Ass on the highway. 
The Ass, being 

The Fox and the Mask 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  39
A FOX entered the house of an actor and, rummaging through all
his properties, came upon a Mask, an admirable imitation of 

The Geese and the Cranes 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  56
 GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow, when a
birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets.  The 

The Blind Man and the Whelp 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  303
 the cub of a Fox, or the whelp of a Wolf, but this
I know full well.  It would not be safe to 

The Dogs and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  9
SOME DOGS, finding the skin of a lion, began to tear it in pieces
with their 

The Cobbler Turned Doctor 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  76
 make a living by his trade and made desperate
by poverty, began to practice medicine in a town in which he was
not known.  

The Wolf and the Horse 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  141
 go into that field.  It is
full of fine oats, which I have left untouched for you, as you
are a friend whom I would 

The Brother and the Sister 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  37
A FATHER had one son and one daughter, the former remarkable for
his good looks, the latter for her extraordinary ugliness. 

The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  28
THE WASPS and the Partridges, overcome with thirst, came to a
Farmer and besought him to give them 

The Crow and Mercury 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  56
 caught in a snare prayed to Apollo to release him, making
a vow to offer some frankincense at his shrine.  But when rescued
from 

The North Wind and the Sun 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  69
 and the Sun disputed as to which was the most
powerful, and agreed that he should be declared the victor who
could first strip a 

The Two Men Who Were Enemies 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  7
TWO MEN, deadly enemies to each other, were sailing in the same
vessel.  Determined to 

The Gamecocks and the Partridge 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  518
 had well beaten the other.  He then
said to himself, "I shall no longer distress myself at being
struck at by these Gamecocks, when 

The Quack Frog 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  126
 to all the beasts that he was a learned physician,
skilled in the use of drugs and able to heal all diseases.  

The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A LION, growing old, lay sick in his cave.  All the beasts came
to visit 

The Dog's House 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  17
IN THE WINTERTIME, a Dog curled up in as small a space as
possible on account of the 

The Wolf and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  125
 shadow
become greatly extended and magnified, and he said to himself,
"Why should I, being of such an immense size and extending nearly
an acre 

The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  35
THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the
conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of 

The Spendthrift and the Swallow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  535
 thus appearing before the springtime
you have not only killed yourself, but you have wrought my
destruction also."  


The Fox and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  35
A FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage, and standing near him,
bitterly reviled him.  The Lion said to the Fox, 

The Owl and the Birds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  446
 which boded no good to them. 
And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that
this man, being on foot, would contrive darts 

The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  398
 to death," they said; "for, while you do not
fight yourself, your trumpet stirs all the others to battle."  


The Ass in the Lion's Skin 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  206
 last coming upon a Fox, he tried to
frighten him also, but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his
voice than he exclaimed, "I 

The Sparrow and the Hare 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  114
 like a child.  A Sparrow upbraided her and said, "Where now
is thy remarkable swiftness of foot? Why were your feet so slow?"
While 

The Flea and the Ox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  45
A FLEA thus questioned an Ox:  "What ails you, that being so huge
and strong, you submit to the wrongs you receive from 

The Goods and the Ills 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  367
 Jupiter that they
might no longer be associated with the Ills, as they had nothing
in common and could not live together, but were engaged 

The Dove and the Crow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  114
 ones which she had hatched.  A Crow hearing her, said:  "My
good friend, cease from this unseasonable boasting.  The larger
the number 

Mercury and the Workmen 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  1236
 hoped he would; and having
learned the cause of his grief, plunged into the stream and
brought up a golden axe, inquiring if he had 

The Eagle and the Jackdaw 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  451
 the ram's fleece and he was not able to
release himself, although he fluttered with his feathers as much
as he could.  The 

The Fox and the Crane 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  102
 provided nothing for his
entertainment but some soup made of pulse, which was poured out
into a broad flat stone dish.  The soup fell 

Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  30
ACCORDING to an ancient legend, the first man was made by
Jupiter, the first bull by Neptune, and the first 

The Eagle and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  142
 Eagle built her nest in the branches
of a tall tree, while the Fox crept into the underwood and there
produced her young.  Not 

The Man and the Satyr 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  121
 being formed between them.  One very cold wintry day, as
they talked, the Man put his fingers to his mouth and blew 

The Ass and His Purchaser 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  31
A MAN wished to purchase an Ass, and agreed with its owner that
he should try out the animal before he 

The Two Bags 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  9
EVERY MAN, according to an ancient legend, is born into the world
with two bags suspended 

The Stag at the Pool 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  260
 slender and weak feet.  While he was thus contemplating
himself, a Lion appeared at the pool and crouched to spring upon
him.  The 

The Jackdaw and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  52
A HALF-FAMISHED JACKDAW seated himself on a fig-tree, which had
produced some fruit entirely out of season, and waited in 

The Lark Burying Her Father 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  75
 (according to an ancient legend) was created before the
earth itself, and when her father died, as there was no earth,
she could find no 

The Gnat and the Bull 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  96
 long time. 
Just as he was about to fly off, he made a buzzing noise, and
inquired of the Bull if he would like 

The Bitch and Her Whelps 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  7
A BITCH, ready to whelp, earnestly begged a shepherd for a place
where she might litter. 

The Dogs and the Hides 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  106
 steeping
in a river.  Not being able to reach them, they agreed to drink
up the river, but it happened that they burst themselves 

The Shepherd and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  38
A SHEPHERD driving his Sheep to a wood, saw an oak of unusual
size full of acorns, and spreading his cloak under the 

The Grasshopper and the Owl 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
AN OWL, accustomed to feed at night and to sleep during the day,
was greatly 

The Monkey and the Camel 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  183
 the
assembly, he sat down amidst universal applause.  The Camel,
envious of the praises bestowed on the Monkey and desiring to
divert to himself 

The Peasant and the Apple-Tree 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  152
 the sparrows and grasshoppers.  He
resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made a
bold stroke at its roots. 

The Two Soldiers and the Robber 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  177
 himself
with his stout right hand.  The Robber being slain, the timid
companion ran up and drew his sword, and then, throwing 

The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  8
THE GODS, according to an ancient legend, made choice of certain
trees to be under their 

The Mother and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  426
 if the
Wolf should come, we will kill him."  The Wolf, hearing these
words, went home, gasping with cold and hunger.  When 

The Ass and the Horse 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  71
 to spare him a small portion of his feed. 
"Yes," said the Horse; "if any remains out of what I am now
eating I 

Truth and the Traveler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  15
A WAYFARING MAN, traveling in the desert, met a woman standing
alone and terribly dejected.  He 

The Manslayer 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  24
A MAN committed a murder, and was pursued by the relations of the
man whom he murdered.  On 

The Lion and the Fox 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  315
 soon became jealous of the Lion carrying off the Lion's
share, and said that he would no longer find out the prey, but
would capture it 

The Lion and the Eagle 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  121
 with him to their mutual advantage.  The Lion replied,
"I have no objection, but you must excuse me for requiring you to
find 

The Hen and the Swallow 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  255
 which, when they shall have grown, will inflict injury on
all, beginning with yourself?'  


The Buffoon and the Countryman 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  69
 RICH NOBLEMAN once opened the theaters without charge to the
people, and gave a public notice that he would handsomely reward
any person who invented a 

The Crow and the Serpent 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  65
 want of food saw a Serpent asleep in a sunny
nook, and flying down, greedily seized him.  The Serpent, turning
about, bit the Crow 

The Hunter and the Horseman 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  16
A CERTAIN HUNTER, having snared a hare, placed it upon his
shoulders and set out homewards.  

The King's Son and the Painted Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A KING, whose only son was fond of martial exercises, had a dream
in which he 

The Cat and Venus 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  44
A CAT fell in love with a handsome young man, and entreated Venus
to change her into the form of a woman.  

The She-Goats and Their Beards 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  59
THE SHE-GOATS having obtained a beard by request to Jupiter, the
He-Goats were sorely displeased and made complaint that the
females equaled them in 

The Camel and the Arab 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  20
AN ARAB CAMEL-DRIVER, after completing the loading of his Camel,
asked him which he would like 

The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  159
 they met with a troop of
women collected round a well, talking and laughing.  "Look
there," cried one of them, "did you ever 

The Crow and the Sheep 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  90
 back of a Sheep.  The
Sheep, much against his will, carried her backward and forward
for a long time, and at last said, 

The Fox and the Bramble 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  154
  Having pricked and grievously
tom the soles of his feet, he accused the Bramble because, when
he had fled to her for assistance, she 

The Wolf and the Lion 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A WOLF, having stolen a lamb from a fold, was carrying him off to
his lair. 

The Dog and the Oyster 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  5
A DOG, used to eating eggs, saw an Oyster and, opening his mouth
to its widest 

The Ant and the Dove 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  55
 to the bank of a river to quench its thirst, and
being carried away by the rush of the stream, was on the 

The Partridge and the Fowler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  107
 it.  The
Partridge earnestly begged him to spare his life, saying, "Pray,
master, permit me to live and I will entice many 

The Flea and the Man 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  5
A MAN, very much annoyed with a Flea, caught him at last, and
said, "Who are 

The Thieves and the Cock 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  60
 broke into a house and found nothing but a Cock,
whom they stole, and got off as fast as they could.  Upon
arriving 

The Dog and the Cook 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  29
A RICH MAN gave a great feast, to which he invited many friends
and acquaintances.  His Dog availed himself of 

The Travelers and the Plane-Tree 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  13
TWO TRAVELERS, worn out by the heat of the summer's sun, laid
themselves down at noon under 

The Hares and the Frogs 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  9
THE HARES, oppressed by their own exceeding timidity and weary of
the perpetual alarm to 

The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  500
 I
have given you all the attributes which I possess myself, and
your courage never fails you except in this one instance."  

The Lamb and the Wolf 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  21
A WOLF pursued a Lamb, which fled for refuge to a certain Temple. 
The Wolf called out to 

The Rich Man and the Tanner 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  30
A RICH MAN lived near a Tanner, and not being able to bear the
unpleasant smell of the tan-yard, he pressed 

The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  17
A SHIPWRECKED MAN, having been cast upon a certain shore, slept
after his buffetings with the deep. 

The Mules and the Robbers 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  708
 "I am indeed glad that I was
thought so little of, for I have lost nothing, nor am I hurt with
any wound."  


The Viper and the File 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A LION, entering the workshop of a smith, sought from the tools
the means of 

The Lion and the Shepherd 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  6
A LION, roaming through a forest, trod upon a thorn.  Soon
afterward he came up 

The Camel and Jupiter 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  9
THE CAMEL, when he saw the Bull adorned with horns, envied him
and wished that he himself 

The Panther and the Shepherds 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  9
A PANTHER, by some mischance, fell into a pit.  The Shepherds
discovered him, and 

The Ass and the Charger 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  80
 congratulated a Horse on being so ungrudgingly and
carefully provided for, while he himself had scarcely enough to
eat and not even that without hard 

The Eagle and His Captor 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  35
AN EAGLE was once captured by a man, who immediately clipped his
wings and put him into his poultry-yard with the 

The Bald Man and the Fly 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  328
 The Bald Man replied, "I can easily make peace with
myself, because I know there was no intention to hurt.  But you,
an ill-favored 

The Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  45
THE OLIVE-TREE ridiculed the Fig-Tree because, while she was
green all the year round, the Fig-Tree changed its leaves 

The Eagle and the Kite 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  372
 to
secure the means of living by your plunder?'  "Well, I have often
caught and carried away an ostrich in my talons."  

The Ass and His Driver 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  188
 throwing himself over, his owner seized him by the tail,
endeavoring to pull him back.  When the Ass persisted in his
effort, 

The Thrush and the Fowler 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  152
  A Fowler observed her
staying so long in one spot, and having well bird-limed his
reeds, caught her.  The Thrush, being at the 

The Rose and the Amaranth 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  48
AN AMARANTH planted in a garden near a Rose-Tree, thus addressed
it:  "What a lovely flower is the Rose, a 

The Frogs' Complaint Against the Sun 

First Exact/Partial Match Found at:  16
ONCE UPON A TIME, when the Sun announced his intention to take a
wife, the Frogs lifted up 

Ordering documents based on Rank: 
1 The Wolf and the Lamb 

2 The Kingdom of the Lion 

3 The Boy and the Nettles 

4 The Kid and the Wolf 

5 The Shepherd and the Wolf 

6 The Ass and the Frogs 

7 The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep 

8 The Thief and the Innkeeper 

9 The Wolf and the Fox 

10 The Kid and the Wolf 

11 The Ass and the Wolf 

12 The Blind Man and the Whelp 

13 The Crow and the Sheep 

14 The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape 

15 The Wolf and the Shepherd 

16 The Widow and the Sheep 

17 The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury 

18 The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse 

19 The Spendthrift and the Swallow 

20 The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass 

21 The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf 

22 The Father and His Sons 

23 Hercules and the Wagoner 

24 The Herdsman and the Lost Bull 

25 The Dog in the Manger 

26 The Fox and the Goat 

27 The Miser 

28 The Two Pots 

29 The Shepherd and the Sea 

30 The Master and His Dogs 

31 The Hunter and the Woodman 

32 The Lion in a Farmyard 

33 The Monkey and the Fishermen 

34 The Flea and the Wrestler 

35 The Two Frogs 

36 The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter 

37 The Thief and the Housedog 

38 The Lark and Her Young Ones 

39 The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox 

40 The Fowler and the Viper 

41 The Gamecocks and the Partridge 

42 The Wolf and the Lion 

43 The Owl and the Birds 

44 The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner 

45 Mercury and the Workmen 

46 The Lark Burying Her Father 

47 The Hen and the Swallow 

48 The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant 

49 The Lamb and the Wolf 

50 The Bald Man and the Fly 

51 The Eagle and the Kite 

52 The Lion and the Dolphin 

53 The Ass in the Lion's Skin 

54 The Doe and the Lion 

55 The Jackdaw and the Doves 

56 The Mules and the Robbers 

57 The Bat and the Weasels 

58 The Fisherman Piping 

59 The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail 

60 The Horse and His Rider 

61 The Belly and the Members 

62 The Thief and His Mother 

63 The Huntsman and the Fisherman 

64 The Fox and the Crow 

65 The Ass Carrying the Image 

66 The Ass and His Masters 

67 The Mouse and the Bull 

68 The Lion and the Hare 

69 The Dancing Monkeys 

70 The Lamp 

71 The Bowman and Lion 

72 The Mule 

73 The Walnut-Tree 

74 The Apes and the Two Travelers 

75 The Hawk and the Nightingale 

76 The Crow and Mercury 

77 The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox 

78 The Dog's House 

79 Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus 

80 The Man and the Satyr 

81 The Hunter and the Horseman 

82 The Dog and the Cook 

83 The Ass and His Driver 

84 The Cock and the Jewel 

85 The Frogs Asking for a King 

86 The Man and His Two Sweethearts 

87 The Old Man and Death 

88 The Horse and the Stag 

89 The Eagle and the Jackdaw 

90 The Stag at the Pool 

91 The Bitch and Her Whelps 

92 The Lion and the Shepherd 

93 The Wolf and the Crane 

94 The Mother and the Wolf 

95 The Ants and the Grasshopper 

96 The Mole and His Mother 

97 The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble 

98 The Farmer and the Stork 

99 The Fawn and His Mother 

100 The Bear and the Fox 

101 The Tortoise and the Eagle  

102 The Bear and the Two Travelers 

103 The Sick Lion 

104 The Horse and Groom 

105 The Boasting Traveler 

106 The Boy and the Filberts 

107 The Ass and the Mule 

108 The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox 

109 The Vain Jackdaw 

110 The Goatherd and the Wild Goats 

111 The Mischievous Dog 

112 The Wolves and the Sheep 

113 The Charger and the Miller 

114 The Fox and the Monkey 

115 The Ox and the Frog 

116 The Father and His Two Daughters 

117 The Farmer and His Sons 

118 The Crab and Its Mother 

119 The Heifer and the Ox 

120 The Fir-Tree and the Bramble 

121 The Man Bitten by a Dog 

122 The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar 

123 The Wild Ass and the Lion 

124 The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion 

125 The Wolf and the Housedog 

126 The Rivers and the Sea 

127 The Playful Ass 

128 The Three Tradesmen 

129 The Two Travelers and the Axe 

130 The Old Hound 

131 The Seaside Travelers 

132 The Swollen Fox 

133 The Cat and the Mice 

134 The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox 

135 The Monkeys and Their Mother 

136 The Traveler and Fortune 

137 The Shepherd and the Dog 

138 The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass 

139 The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter 

140 The Oak and the Woodcutters 

141 The Crow and the Raven 

142 The Trees and the Axe 

143 The Crab and the Fox 

144 The Ass and the Old Shepherd 

145 The Dog and the Hare 

146 The Bull and the Calf 

147 The Fox and the Hedgehog 

148 The Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow 

149 The Prophet 

150 The Fox and the Monkey 

151 The Weasel and the Mice 

152 The Seller of Images 

153 The Man and His Wife 

154 The Peacock and Juno 

155 The Lion and the Bull 

156 

157 The Fly and the Draught-Mule 

158 The Fishermen 

159 The Horse and the Ass 

160 The Fox and the Mask 

161 The Dogs and the Fox 

162 The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer 

163 The Fox and the Lion 

164 The Sparrow and the Hare 

165 The Shepherd and the Sheep 

166 The Two Soldiers and the Robber 

167 The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods 

168 The Ass and the Horse 

169 The Lion and the Fox 

170 The Buffoon and the Countryman 

171 The King's Son and the Painted Lion 

172 The She-Goats and Their Beards 

173 The Fox and the Bramble 

174 The Dog and the Oyster 

175 The Flea and the Man 

176 The Travelers and the Plane-Tree 

177 The Frogs' Complaint Against the Sun 

178 The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller 

179 The Salt Merchant and His Ass 

180 The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk 

181 The Wild Boar and the Fox 

182 The Peasant and the Eagle 

183 The Hen and the Golden Eggs 

184 The Woman and Her Hen 

185 The Manslayer 

186 The Cat and Venus 

187 The Cat and the Birds 

188 The One-Eyed Doe 

189 The Monkey and the Camel 

190 The Traveler and His Dog 

191 Mercury and the Sculptor 

192 The Man and the Lion 

193 The Lioness 

194 The Laborer and the Snake 

195 The Astronomer 

196 The Vine and the Goat 

197 Jupiter and the Monkey 

198 The Wolf and the Sheep 

199 The Sick Kite 

200 The Wolf and the Shepherds 

201 The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat 

202 The Old Lion 

203 The Brazier and His Dog 

204 The Gnat and the Lion 

205 The Monkey and the Dolphin 

206 The Brother and the Sister 

207 The Two Men Who Were Enemies 

208 The Flea and the Ox 

209 The Dove and the Crow 

210 The Jackdaw and the Fox 

211 The Grasshopper and the Owl 

212 The Panther and the Shepherds 

213 The Hare and the Tortoise 

214 The Goat and the Goatherd 

215 The Cat and the Cock 

216 The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat 

217 The Lion in Love 

218 The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing 

219 The Sick Stag 

220 The Oxen and the Butchers 

221 The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice 

222 The Fisherman and His Nets 

223 The Two Dogs 

224 The Eagle and the Arrow 

225 The Lion and the Boar 

226 The Mice and the Weasels 

227 The Milk-Woman and Her Pail 

228 The Fox and the Woodcutter 

229 The Oaks and Jupiter 

230 The Bald Knight 

231 The Two Frogs 

232 The Fox and the Lion 

233 The Lion and the Three Bulls 

234 The Cobbler Turned Doctor 

235 The Wolf and the Horse 

236 The Fox and the Crane 

237 The Peasant and the Apple-Tree 

238 The Ant and the Dove 

239 The Rich Man and the Tanner 

240 The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea 

241 The Camel and Jupiter 

242 The Ass and the Lapdog 

243 The Old Woman and the Physician 

244 The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle 

245 The Stag in the Ox-Stall 

246 The Boy Hunting Locusts 

247 The Swallow and the Crow 

248 The Thirsty Pigeon 

249 The Fisherman and the Little Fish 

250 The Widow and Her Little Maidens 

251 The Goods and the Ills 

252 The Lion and the Mouse 

253 The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock 

254 The Wasp and the Snake 

255 The Peacock and the Crane 

256 The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog 

257 The Fox and the Grapes 

258 The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat 

259 The Gnat and the Bull 

260 The Thrush and the Fowler 

261 The Farmer and the Fox 

262 The Wolf and the Goat 

263 The Lion and the Eagle 

264 The Eagle and His Captor 

265 The Rose and the Amaranth 

266 The Dog and the Shadow 

267 The Raven and the Swan 

268 The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons 

269 The Mice in Council 

270 The Bull and the Goat 

271 The Camel 

272 The Hart and the Vine 

273 The Eagle and the Fox 

274 The Ass and His Purchaser 

275 The Dogs and the Hides 

276 The Partridge and the Fowler 

277 The Hares and the Frogs 

278 The Ass and the Charger 

279 The Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree 

280 The Flies and the Honey-Pot 

281 The Farmer and the Cranes 

282 The Bee and Jupiter 

283 The Ass and His Shadow 

284 The Oak and the Reeds 

285 The Crow and the Pitcher 

286 The North Wind and the Sun 

287 The Two Bags 

288 The Crow and the Serpent 

289 The Ass and the Grasshopper 

290 The Farmer and the Snake 

291 The Mountain in Labor 

292 The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion 

293 The Oxen and the Axle-Trees 

294 The Boys and the Frogs 

295 The Aethiop 

296 The Swan and the Goose 

297 The Seagull and the Kite 

298 The Hare and the Hound 

299 The Kites and the Swans 

300 The Wolves and the Sheepdogs 

301 The Hares and the Foxes 

302 The Serpent and the Eagle 

303 The Boy Bathing 

304 The Geese and the Cranes 

305 The Quack Frog 

306 Truth and the Traveler 

307 The Camel and the Arab 

308 The Wolf and the Lion 

309 The Thieves and the Cock 

310 The Viper and the File 

311 The Hares and the Lions 

